---
layout: posts-no-author
title: Steven Moore Interview
description: In this conversation, Steven Moore discusses his book, Alexander Theroux&#58; A Fan’s Notes.
author: Grant Maierhofer
tags: [interview]
excerpt: ... I do indeed feel the role of the critic has changed, and not for the better ...
date: 2020-09-11
issue: fall-2020
interview: author of Alexander Theroux&#58; A Fan’s Notes
image: '/assets/img/fall2020/stevenmoore.jpg'
width: 300
height: 450
---


I first became aware of the criticism of Steven Moore, I think, via his
*The Novel: an Alternative History*, which basically undoes any tidy
history that's been written of the genre as begun and established in any
one place or time, illustrating the sprawling origins of sprawling
textual experiments across the earth and time. Feeling a bit dead in
terms of my own efforts writing, I reached out to Moore with the
eventual goal of trying to write the third volume to his two
masterworks. He was incredibly kind, even sending me notes he'd had for
a third volume. It's an odd thing in turn, because, in a way, the third
volume was written in his *My Back Pages*, a compendium of criticism as
sprawling and ambitious as his works on the novel, though I guess a bit
more open than the first two volumes and hence published as something
different. I tried to wrap my head around continuing his efforts, and
some time passed. I jotted some notes, and wrote a bit based on what
he'd sent me, and some time passed. I emailed him about things, or lost
touch a bit, and some time passed. Eventually I shifted my focus and
wrote him with an apology, saying perhaps I'd try my hand at an
alternative history of the short story, and some time passed. Across
whatever years or months begun with his alternative history, I became
acquainted with everything else he'd written. He's probably the most
important figure, aside from Gaddis himself, who's kept alive the modest
bonfire of interest in the life and works of William Gaddis. He's an
ardent admirer of big, brainy books, and has worked for much of his life
to champion both the lesser-knowns in that category, as well as each
decade's occasional tomes. If you're a fan of Michael Silverblatt's
immersive, readerly approach to interviewing writers, there's a good
chance you'd find a kindred spirit in the writing of Moore. His most
recent book, a selection of writings on the elusively brilliant American
original Alexander Theroux, presents a wonderful entry point to both
Theroux's tomes, and to the writings of Steven Moore in turn. He was
kind enough to answer some questions regarding *Alexander Theroux: A
Fan's Notes*, out now from [Zerogram
Press](http://zerogrampress.com/2020/03/30/alexander-theroux-a-fans-notes/){:target="_blank"}.

— Grant Maierhofer

<figure class="mb-4 py-4">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/seperator.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="mx-auto d-block" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

**I wanted to start with a sort of primer question before getting into
the book and Theroux in particular. You're someone who has weathered
your share of storms in the name of criticism, and in the name of
writing about fiction as a sort of historical force. When you look at
things as they are today, has your sense of the role of the critic, and
the sort of critical writing you're interested in---in-depth, rigorous,
academic but human and impassioned---has it changed very much? You've
single handedly kept afloat scholarly interest in a number of
significant writers, has this process, or your relationship to it, been
affected by the seemingly constant change of the last century or so?**

I do indeed feel the role of the critic has changed, and not for the
better. Over the last fifty years, there seems to have been a shift in
many critics' attention away from the craftsmanship and artistry of
literary works to their sociopolitical implications, to their authors'
attitudes, perhaps unconscious, toward such issues as gender, racism,
power, colonialism, etc. Critics became more interested in literary
theory than literature itself and used particular literary works only to
illustrate various propositions by their peer-approved theorists. More
recently, some have donned the drab uniform of social justice warriors
to chastise authors for not being as woke as they are, and to cancel
them from the curriculum. (On this trend I highly recommend a new book
entitled *Cynical Theories: How Activist Scholarship Made Everything
About Race, Gender and Identity*, by Helen Pluckrose and James Lindsay.)

And the language of academic criticism has certainly changed since the
1970s, again not for the better. (For that reason, I decided to use an
anti-academic style when writing *The Novel: An Alternative History*; I
intended "alternative" to describe its style as well as its focus on
lesser-known, more innovative works.) So I feel no connection with most
current modes of criticism, but I come across enough new examples of
traditional literary scholarship---such as Steven Belletto's *The Beats:
A Literary History* and Massimo Bacicalupo's *Ezra Pound, Italy, and
"The Cantos"---*to assure me not everyone has drunk the Kool-Aid.

**I wondered, with this in mind, where you saw this book functioning in
terms of all of your output. We\'ve talked a little about how *My Back
Pages* kind of functions as an informal third book in the *Novel*
series, and alongside those books your recent work has favored
individual authors---with the Bukowski book, the Gaddis material you\'ve
written. As a sort of rejoinder to the concerns of contemporary
criticism---moving in a sociopolitical direction, or simply functioning
as a way to explicate academic theories---would you almost suggest an
individual author-centric approach to criticism for burgeoning
writers?**

Most of my books and essays have been author-specific, as you note; I've
never been one to attempt thematic approaches, as in another excellent
book I've just read, Rob Turner's *Counterfeit Culture: Truth and
Authenticity in the American Prose Epic since 1960.* (Hope you don't
mind these product placements, but I like spreading the word about
useful books.) The closest I've come is my argument in *The Novel* that
avant-gardism has always been practiced by a small number of writers; it
didn't begin in the 20th century, as many assume. But I strongly feel
that, in addition to pursuing large themes, young critics ought to
specialize in at least one author, because that deep immersion will
teach you a lot about how writers create. Research their biography, read
their letters and interviews (if available), study manuscripts and
textual issues, familiarize yourself with their critical reception, and
so on. If nothing else, it results in a greater appreciation of the
ordeal of writing something and seeing it through the press, and
underscores the fact that literary works are, first and foremost,
constructed artifacts, which should be the first thing a critic focuses
on when assessing a work.

I had the opportunity to read the typescript of Gaddis's third novel,
*Carpenter's Gothic*, while staying with him for a few days in 1984, and
after I told him how much I liked it, he started grilling me on its
aesthetic aspects: characterization, plot development, pacing, etc. He
didn't want to discuss the overarching themes or sociological
implications of the book; he was solely concerned with whether it was an
aesthetically sound work of art. I have the impression that many current
critics don't care about the aesthetic soundness of a novel or play,
only about its place in current socio-political discussions.

**How has your relationship to Theroux\'s works over time informed or
affected your views about the author-critic relationship?**

Writing about a living author who is still creating is tricky, as you
can imagine. For one thing, even though you are writing principally for
others, knowing that the author will be reading your remarks is
unnerving, which can cause you to pull your punches, though it also
forces you to avoid glibness and sloppy generalizations. If a reader
knows you are in contact with an author, you risk losing credibility if
you praise the author too loudly or sidestep weaknesses in the author's
work. It's obviously easier to write about dead authors, but writing
about living authors forces you to be more respectful, more even-handed,
and more sympathetic---all good qualities that critics should exhibit no
matter who they are writing about. Also, as in the case of Theroux, you
learn that your initial reaction to a writer might later appear
premature or misinformed; as I write in the preface to the new book, my
disappointment with Theroux's later works are partly the result of my
early miscategorization of him as a writer.

**I'm interested in that moment in the preface and this idea of the
process of critique often being one of revisiting over the course of
one's life. It's clearer probably with your work on Gaddis as you've
carried him with you from the beginning, but I wonder about moments like
that, where you're looking back and realizing your perception has
changed. Theroux provides an interesting case because his work has been
published and reissued in such random fits and starts throughout his
career, the unifying thing being this fascinating presence he commands
at all stages. What steps do you need to go through to feel as though a
solid critique has been reached, before you can let go a bit from the
endeavor? Have there been other authors over time you've almost written
on but couldn't quite settle on a position or method?**

Although I now feel I miscategorized Theroux earlier, my appreciation of
his early work hasn't changed---though I deliberately refrained from
re-reading them for this book, for I wanted to preserve my early
reactions to them. But to reach what you call "a solid critique," I
would indeed have to re-read them and fit them into the wider picture of
his complete works. I suspect I would now rate his *An Adultery* a
little higher than I originally did, and I would use *Darconville's Cat*
as an example of what he did right that he failed to do in *Laura
Warholic*. His anti-racist *Three Wogs* certainly rebuts, or
complicates, the charges of racism some readers have made against his
later work. But having written this book, I'll leave that sort of
evaluation to someone else. I can't think of any other writers I've
hesitated to write about because I couldn't make up my mind about them:
I've plunged forward with anyone who has aroused my enthusiasm.

**This next one sort of builds on your answer a bit here. One of my
favorite portions of the book was when you included the letter you sent
Theroux having just finished his *Laura Warholic,* which itself sort of
speaks to the best moments in most critical writing, and why your "Fan's
Notes" approach is more appealing than an exhaustive critical biography.
Theroux is someone who has usually positioned unsavory characters in his
characteristic wall of language and allusion. You mention in your letter
that it seems off to "like" the relentlessness of the book---its
characters, or the language's invective---but that the experience is
nevertheless powerful. Gass talked in his *Paris Review* interview about
literature's ability to render the hatred he had acceptable to the world
at large. In your years of reading and engaging literature, do you think
one of its unique qualities would be the transformation of hatred, or
disgust, or anger into something that works, that seduces or holds a
reader? I can think of films that feel relentless---*Romper Stomper* or
Alan Clarke's stand out---but even if well done there's a coldness to
the experience you don't necessarily have when reading *Sabbath's
Theater*. Painting can wield aggression with a Pollock or someone
thereabouts, but reading literature does seem better positioned to
scream at a reader, so to speak. This might actually merge well with
your subtitle too, as Frederick Exley is certainly a writer who found an
outlet in his work. Does this align with your thinking on Theroux's
strengths? Would you agree that literature does have the benefit of
allowing for ugly, or unkind figures or language to reach a reader
better than other narrative forms?**

Since I'm very critical of the way Theroux expanded the original version
of *Laura Warholic*, I wanted to end that chapter on a positive note, to
affirm that---for all its faults---it is still a powerful novel.
Fortunately I had kept a copy of my letter responding to the first draft
that I read in 2002---which Theroux really liked---and that first-draft
response struck me as more effective than an academic evaluation made 18
years later. As I say there, I'm uncomfortable with the cheap shots
Theroux takes---body-shaming, homophobia, ethnic slurs, etc.---but then
again, the satiric mode he works in doesn't play nice: it has always
relied on insults and degradation. As you note, there's a power and
appeal in such vicious, over-the-top language that normal discourse
lacks, and it can be perversely enjoyable, like listening to an insult
comic roast someone. Not every writer is cut out for that sort of thing,
but Theroux realized early on that savage indignation and satire came
natural to him, which is definitely one of his strengths. And despite
the discomfort and outrage objectionable language can cause, it should
never be suppressed or censored: in our politically correct culture,
literature is one of the few places left where "free speech" is truly
free, and where some uncomfortable truths can be uttered. Having said
that, the relentless negativity in the long novel can become wearying,
especially since you have to endure it longer than a relentless film or
painting.

**I'm very curious about that, and it ties in with Theroux too. You've
championed not only the long novel throughout history in your two-book
study, but also the long contemporary novel as a unique sort of artwork
in our disrupted, flailing present. You've spoken highly of *House of
Leaves*, and more recently on Matthew McIntosh's *theMystery.doc*, and
then here with Theroux's sprawling endeavors, some labeled as fiction
and others nonfiction, but all undeniably exhaustive works in the
tradition of Robert Burton and the long book. As a critic, and a
thinker, do you think there is solace to be found in our present in the
long novel, or long book? Can you see the more recent (or updated, as
you noted with *Laura Warholic*) Theroux projects as mirrors on, or
responses to our present day? As someone who's read the novel's various
moments across cultures and eras you seem to be one of the best minds to
gauge its relevance or not to things as they are.**

Don't get me started on long novels! For some reason, I've always been
attracted to them, beginning in high school with Ayn Rand's doorstoppers
and Tolkien's trilogy, and continuing with anything large and
ambitious-looking in my twenties. At a flea market in the early 1970s I
remember buying John Barth's *Sot-Weed Factor* and Marguerite Young's
*Miss MacIntosh, My Darling* solely because of their girth. (The Young
was the Signet paperback, which was 1,400 pages long!) Nor has the
attraction faded: a few weeks ago I finished reading an 1,836-page novel
by Michael Tobias entitled *The Adventures of Mr Marigold* (2005), which
reconfigures Don Quixote as a modern-day environmentalist/animal rights
activist. And I'm pleased to see that publishers are still bringing out
gigantic novels, like Vollmann's, like Lucy Ellmann's *Ducks,
Newburyport* (though I abandoned it after about 100 pages), and like
Charlie Kaufman's recent *Antkind*, which Amazon keeps trying to foist
on me.

Yes, "solace" is one appeal of such novels: it is solacing to lose
oneself in a long novel for several weeks as an alternative to the daily
madness conveyed by the news media. It's like going on a long vacation,
whereas the average-size novel is more like a weekend getaway, or a
one-night stand, depending on how fast you read. To bring this back to
Theroux's recent work: one overwhelming feature of modern life is
information overload, TMI as people used to say, and several of his
recent books---*Laura Warholic* and *Einstein's Beets* in particular, as
well as some unpublished books like *Anomalies* (currently around
288,600 words)---display this in excelsis. But if it comes down to a
choice between maximalism or minimalism, I'll tolerate Theroux's
excesses.


<img src="{{ '/assets/img/fall2020/stevenmoore.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="img-fluid mx-auto my-4 d-block" alt="Steven Moore image"/>
