---
layout: posts
title: The Reconfigure
description: A fiction piece by T.W. Selvey - The Reconfigure
author: T.W. Selvey
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... What I am characterizing is only called Figure ...
date: 2020-08-05
issue: fall-2020
image: '/assets/img/fall2020_og/figure.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---

Attention: I am no longer creating people. I have witnessed the inherent
tragedy unfold too many times. Subjugation takes its natural course and
perfectly good individuals are distorted into types, the purposefully
broken manifestations of already bad ideas. The idea has always been to
take raw materials and shape them into an idealized person. Idealized,
not in the sense of the best possible kind, but as a basic unit that has
been shorn of extraneous, contradictory, or mundane parts. An idealized
person does not sleep, which is an abominable sacrifice, but look all
around and there is limitless deprivation, which is so common, few
hesitate to forego all sleep at a moment's notice, never to sleep again.

There is an alternative to idealization. I use the term 'alternative'
loosely. No, it's not about capitulating to nothingness, which is
propped up as a lack, or an inverse of existence, an improbable opposite
against something that, as far as I and a few others understand, there
is no opposite. What I propose is to bring about a reconfiguration.

What I am characterizing is only called Figure. For example (and to
emphasize, it's for example purposes only): "Figure accumulates browser
bookmarks and ketchup packets. Round wrists, Figure is a suitor. Do what
it takes, Figure." Images, once unconstrained, will freely organize
themselves around a motif, even as those images are degraded and will
take up an interest mostly in themselves.

Figure is interesting, evoking a person in the form of a mere figure,
casting silhouettes and doing little else. However, there is a risk, in
a name as simplified as Figure, that personality is also evoked. Names
are convenient. The named respond as called out or called upon. However,
a name is arbitrary. Giving a name is violence. Averse to violence, but
I was born unaware, naturally heinous, swinging and kicking at invisible
threats like a somnambulist. Forewarning: Figure is not much and does
less, so agency becomes difficult to apprehend. Additionally, Figure
could be more than 1. For example: "Figure approaches Figure and pulls
out a pencil." Appropriation happens as works of fiction are located and
they have to undo the fictional base, calling upon Figure to replace
names or pronouns, places or a select list of nouns. The underlying
assumption is that fiction is invented, 'made up,' but Figure has dug up
plots, and therefore Figure protrudes out from the lattice-like field or
gridwork in matter, seemingly making dumb, inert things sentient
(again).

Produce an outline:

Introduce an indelible concept of Figure.

Figure does not want to live in stories. Figure is emphatic on that
point.

The stories are nonfictional accounts of Figure's movements,
figuratively speaking, since Figure is unmovable.

Stories lose synchronicity and Figure is exposed to abstractions, which
become a greater Figure.

Figure isn't parented, authored, planned, or discussed.

Shape and substance are completely out of the question, belonging to the
domain of dumb beings and authenticity fatigue.

Figure[1] is aspirational. Figure wanted to be called a rare lifeform,
a true breed. I have no intention. Law cooks civil rights. Law first
trims the fat, a quarter of us in the Figure. Trash like a sexual stink,
inhale more than soap scum. Oh, it's a rosaceous concubine in the pump
bottle. Pump it, pump me, and wash up. Cleanliness is next to Target.
Target has a long line sticking out, a de-boned finger. Under the door
like a cold draft, tickling dog legs and an arm fleet, stroking cilium
one by one. Pay attention. Pay it. The gift economy (Marcel Mauss)[2]
wasn't shy and actually very strident, 'take this or I'll fuck your guts
out,' but tartan gift wrapper rolled out, saying Gifts could help snap
the cold, the selfish, by their necks and what spurts out is debt
relief, no more loans or pirate rates, but a debt to return the favor,
which is a scratched copy of Die Hard. No, it's only the plastic case,
and within, it has Figure in the figure of Caligula[3] (1979)[4],
mounting a sideways-fucking, a fucking way out, an escape from The
Escape from Alcatraz. Movies imprison figures. Figure turns over. All
the erotica is snipped out and neutered figures have no way to sex,
because capital has to budget success and replenish its private seminal
reserve. Sex isn't together. Nature is the hero and nature has an R
rating. Be a bee, and rob the state. Figure panics. Is this what all the
money fuss is all about? Think it's theft, but it's what the state had
in mind. More theft = more state.

Figure is a state. States are stamens[5], not a red columbine and a
blue penstemon. The demure stamen has a petal fortress, attractive thin
curtains move, sly in the breeze, winking. The species is a
twenty-dollar bill trapped by a lure or an unhearing siren or a famous
astronaut who cringes as he warped time to hurry us to the present, a
huge bloodletting, a street corner beating at the cost of witnesses. A
doll shit. Climb up on top of the baton, a bare Figure, and all the
state says is if you act free then we've done our work. We are the glory
of a flag, waving demonstratively because you must know I love you. If
you fuck the police, that makes more of them. A vasectomy or trepan
won't keep me from stopping to abort the flowers. Be a bee that has
allergies. Figure sees possessions in porn soundscapes, the receptacle
moans, the peduncle yells, and Figure gets in the rhythm, yeah, casement
is a window, open and fuck-noises melt children down, exposing their
innocence as something the state feigns because children are dying, not
smart enough to avoid bombs or op-eds. Ped-uncle could be
pederast-uncle. Figure is determined by a baseline, the lowest level it
takes to gun it, revving the past like it's a ghost race. Coming up
short than the speed of light, so the camera laughed, I got you, I take
a Figure picture and it's you. The blaring siren wakes up nearby sirens.
Shit, it's charging the whole fucking plebiscite! The billowing smiles
of a Glock 45. Say hi, Figure, the discipline is sick and here to stay
with you. There is no law! It's all internalized! Suckling, printed,
garrulous enfant-factum brought a verb and makes me go. Figure, the last
to feel so insatiable, as constant as Plank's constant, printed to PDF
to preserve human formatting, because concrete lettering is teetering on
the edge, the margins are about to fall forward. Conked head, bleeding
casement doors. Figures. Marginalized people are people but
people-grouping brings debasement to a higher level of margin, a sharp
paper edge that's here to cut me down, shred by shred, ribbons searing
in hot grease. Figure burnt on the palm by a cast iron pan.

Roth IRA or a rotting ISA[6], the imaginary imaginaries, the
imagine-engine engineering what seems like a plan for me to retire when
I'm 139 years old. Why invest in education? Teach them a lesson on how
social formations reproduce through education[7] and it's a sound
investment, Figure, since that's the way you will lay waste to middling
mind control, the ownership socials you RSVP to are invidious and you're
in deep shit. Imaginaries, mercenaries. Doll shit, the largest party in
the genera, hatches Figure as a rescue. Climb aboard, all can fit.
Knowing that knowing is mind control makes control feel less bothersome,
knowledge less burdensome.

Bad education is the best, mishandling the blade and cut Figures. Belt
out a rousing whore call. Because margins are not the center. The
paucity of fighters. Doll shit me a strand, pretty long, so I can
pulley, pulley, pulley, and pulley again!

Marginalized says Figure is lost in my voice, in the rivulets carving a
canyon precipice. Lost in my eyes, zoned off on the thread. Lost in
translations of an Aramaic erythroid, a ridgeline compound in
Berchtesgaden. Where the fuck are the hosts. The Nazis won again, and
this isn't even the main timeline or a time to joke about such things.
We are the hosts. Implants have a short video on YouTube, a host for the
second person in the utmost, making Figure a 'you,' a host for the
figure. Figure doesn't want you, and shits you out.

Right now, most of the people who are having threesomes and group sex,
aside from porn, are not physically beautiful or hot, more often they
are ugly, almost hostile in their particulars, wrenching thick legs from
a cross-legged position, wincing because blood stopped in the heavy-set
thigh vein, just so Figure could catch some fresh hemoglobin in a
spaghetti strainer, the thick parts going in a can. Water squeezed from
a watery heart, I'm hot, but not in a good way, because the Food Network
cooks[8] said I had no talent, boiling a negative reflux in a garbage
can, and that feedback was welcome but it confirmed I'm burnt out, a
crispy-edged figure, up to nothing good, a foul thing making foul
things.

<br>
<br>


**Footnotes**

<div class="footnotes">
<p>[1] Figure, a catch-all, a literary homunculus, a spiteful golem, a pit
    of opportune connotation.</p>

<p>[2] The gift economy has been posed as outside of capitalist-based
    exchange value, where things are purchased with money, but giving a
    gift establishes a debt, and I am not returning the favor.</p>

<p>[3] I googled "famous porn movies," and found a link to an article on
    Marie Claire magazine,
    <a href="https://www.marieclaire.com/culture/a12466598/best-porn-movies-of-all-time/" target="_blank">https://www.marieclaire.com/culture/a12466598/best-porn-movies-of-all-time/</a> There is an entry for Caligula. In the article, there is a link,
    which leads to a DVD offering on Amazon. However, the DVD on Amazon
    is a heavily edited version (102 minutes, versus a full-length
    version, which is 156 minutes, according to Imdb.com). In cinema,
    full penetration is the sign par excellence for unfettered realism.</p>

<p>[4] Tinto Brass is the director. Malcolm McDowell plays Caligula.
    Throughout his oeuvre, Tinto Brass seems obsessed with female
    derrière.</p>

<p>[5] A specific flower is part of a species, producing pollen in order to
    continue its species, which is in turn in a genus, among other
    species also producing pollen. Similarly, the state has
    species-forms, specific instantiations, wherein the state as species
    is perpetuated via interchanges with its unrelated parts. Kill a
    flowering plant, the species is unharmed. Undermine an institution,
    the state perseveres. Kill a species, the genus survives. Eliminate
    a given state, the state as formal arrangement of social actors
    survives.</p>

<p>[6] It's been well over a decade since I read Louis Althusser, but the
    conceptual construct of Ideological State Apparatuses seems obvious
    and I wonder why someone had to elaborate on it. Althusser was
    mentally ill and shot his wife.</p>

<p>[7] I attended school and was educated on how education perpetuates
    capitalism. In hyper-developed countries, critique fine-tunes the
    system. As radicalism does not overcome anything, it is permitted.
    But it will feel like a radical evacuation of radicalism.</p>

<p>[8] Could be a metaphor for editors, who only consume text cooked
    perfectly.</p>
</div>
