---
layout: posts
title: 3 Stories
description: 3 stories by Daniel Beauregard
author: Daniel Beauregard
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... She sort of smiled, as if she knew, like me, that some men, no matter how you try, simply can't be domesticated ...
date: 2020-03-13
issue: summer-2020
image: '/assets/img/summer2020_og/daniel.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---

## Berrigan's Eras

Berrigan's ears whistle like pipe cleaners in the wind; a head too big
for its body, forepaws fluffy and concise. Passed by in a window a man
couldn't resist holding something so small in his hands. The zookeeper
corralled him from the ground floor of Cortázar's apartment building,
somehow still alive, flip flopping about. We walk to the patio and slip
on the leavings underfoot, hardened and small like tiny ball bearings;
somewhere something's nibbling nearby, but we couldn't say what. Early
mornings filled with exhaust; a faint smell of straw, sweat mixed in the
air like a barn, although there was only sprawl. We could have never
kept it. You imagine every rabbit you see is part of some untold fairy
tale; a familiar, because they're fast and so hard to catch. Corralling
Berrigan was next to impossible. Days seemed like weeks, like months,
like years. Nibbling nearby troubling our sleep. This was not the life
we imagined, we thought with a sigh, wondering if we couldn't elope
somewhere to spend the days and nights in the solitude of a hollowed
oak. Perhaps then, perhaps. Our relationship was short-lived. I'd get
home from work each day and Berrigan would glance over his newspaper and
nod, then adjust his glasses and continue chewing his carrot. We began
to resent each other; or I, being the only one working, began resenting
him for his lack of contribution. My mother was right, I'd secretly tell
myself as I lay awake at night, I should have never gotten involved with
such a man, a ... a rabbit. One day I'd had enough. I'd heard from a
girlfriend that an aunt had a friend who kept rabbits in a place far
outside the city that would likely take him in. That was enough for me.
One Saturday, early, we woke and did ourselves up: I wore my favorite
dress, fixed my hair and makeup; Berrigan, donned a suit and his cravat.
We spent several hours in the *Sarmiento* train headed west into the
interior of the province. Berrigan was upset. The train was packed. He
didn't like crowds---neither did I for that matter---and there were so
many people that for half of the ride we'd had to hold our arms above
our heads. When the doors had opened briefly there was room, so we
stretched them into the air and were unable to lower them before the
next crowd of people shoved into the car. By the time it was our stop
they'd become numb, sore and shaking. We got off and there was grass and
Berrigan, delighted, nibbled on it as we made our way toward the aunt's
house, skipping back and forth and making all sorts of odd observations
and exclamations. I hadn't seen him so happy in years and for a moment,
this made me terribly sad. Finally, we arrived at the aunt's house and
she welcomed us in gladly. Berrigan, without a word, jetted straight for
the backyard. In the kitchen, one wall was filled all the way to the
ceiling with decorative plates and saucers from around the world. Some
looked like antiques---fine china---but most were cheap and
unattractive, dotted with images of animals, birds and dogs. We sat
outside, the aunt and I, and had tea while Berrigan rustled around in
the bushes. The conversation was pleasant enough. When were finished, I
was almost sad to leave. I looked out into the yard one last time and
watched as Berrigan hopped from behind a small bench, chasing a
butterfly. The aunt said she'd take care of getting him over to her
neighbor's house. "Don't you want to say goodbye?" she asked as I stood
on the doorstep. I shook my head and left, wondering what to do next.
She sort of smiled, as if she knew, like me, that some men, no matter
how you try, simply can't be domesticated. Years later I went back to
the aunt's house with my friend for a visit. As I was passing through
the kitchen to the bathroom, I noticed a plate on the wall with the
picture of a rabbit. It looked exactly like him.

<figure class="my-5 py-3">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/seperator.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

## Golemitos

We'll never make it out of here alive, it's impossible. We use the
rangefinder each day embedded in our right eye to focus on the pores of
our skin, zooming in until they look like the little holes in swiss
cheese that have bubbled and burst away, forgotten. We'll never make
it---you ought to listen to us. We know for sure. We focus intently on
one of the holes until it becomes clear in our optic viewfinder and
ready our tweezers for extraction---the first time we saw this we were
fucking amazed---and just as if we were playing Operation® we reach in
slowly without touching the sides of the pores. If the tweezers come in
too strong or loud it spooks the little versions of ourselves burrowed
deep within. It's like this: everybody has more than a million pores and
inside each lives a tiny golem tied to a string called Destiny. When you
squeeze a blackhead it's now considered murder. Here's one, see the tiny
thread attached to it as we pull it out and place it on the windowsill?
No, that's right, of course you don't, you're not fitted with optical
implants but trust me, it's there. Based on the stethoscope, mask and
tiny white gloves, this must be a doctor, a surgeon perhaps. Another
one: here. It's a lawyer, see his little hat? The next is simply a newly
formed idea of success. Plug into our temple port. Now there, see? There
are three tiny versions of ourselves standing next to each other on the
windowsill. Look what happens when the thread of Destiny is torn or
broken (with our small pliers we snip the doctor's thread with a flick
of the wrist. For a moment nothing happens, then the tiny doctor drops
to his knees, hands around his head, screaming something
incomprehensible. A millisecond later he bursts into flames, his ashes
thicken and grow like those black snake fireworks, extending across the
sill, then breaking off and plummeting to the floor below). Watch what
happens when I open the window and let the lawyer out (at this point I
should also mention that the thread of Destiny will stretch as far as
need be but become ever more fragile the farther away the golemito's
body gets from its host). Watch! The lawyer's looking left and right.
He's scaling the wall cautiously to the ground below. Now he's down. But
he's only managed to take several steps. Here comes some sort of masked
assailant. My goodness, he's got a little black ski mask on and
everything. I don't think the lawyer's going to get too far today (we
watch as the masked figure drives a knife into his heart. The thread of
Destiny is severed and burns toward us like a tiny fuse back to the pore
from which it came). Next up is the newly formed idea of success, which
in theory, should have a better chance in the open air because it's
still abstract. Let's crack the window. See how it floats upwards into
the air for a moment then totally deflates. It's turning the color of
jade now and crumbling away into nothing. Starting to get the picture?
What's that? You think you'll try it anyways, despite my protests? Fine
by me. After all, it's your life not mine. Go ahead if you want. There
you go, right out the window there---watch the ledge. Look at you! We're
amazed. You're right there in front of us---outside---and it appears
nothing's happening. You're sure you're not feeling something; anything?
Really? Great, you say? Never better? You really feel alright? Then
perhaps we've miscalculated. Yes, it would be good to get some fresh
air. But are you sure it's safe? Believe us we'd like nothing more than
to leave. You're absolutely positive? Alright then. Eventually we've got
to learn to trust one another, why not now? Here help me---yes that's
it. Let me just get my leg up and over and---ah, there we go. Here we
are. Yes indeed, it is refreshing, very refreshing. But just a moment,
we seem to be caught on something, it's right behi---*Oh Christ,* we
shout, watching in horror as the window slams shut, severing a thick
piece of twine. A little wick from our bottom illuminates the night in
blinding fashion then *poof!* we're right back where we started; this
child's life, it's often inescapable.

<figure class="my-5 py-3">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/seperator.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

## Ooks (Waterproof Radio in the Shape of Lips)

Ooks, oocks ... oosp ... oops ... oops ... opps. Oops!
Oopsoopsoopsoops. Oops! *How do they feel?* Good, bert nort perrfect.
*There's a bit of an adjustment period.* That much was obvious, we
thought. The tinkerer glared as if he'd heard us actually say this, then
forced a smile as he held out his hand. I placed seven pieces of coral
in it and we were on our way, towards where was to be decided. Most
mornings we tend to wander until the fresh air caught up with us from
the bellows beneath the city. The air wasn't really fresh, of
course---around here nothing is---but it still offered a pleasant warm
whoosh each morning. When we could find an unoccupied sewer grate to
stand over we'd remain still and let our skirt billow up until we had to
press it down again, just like Marilyn Monster. As we crossed the street
one of our cohorts shouted to us, *nice lips*, they said, *you look just
like Marilyn Monster*. This made our cheeks turn green and we checked
just to make sure we weren't right then standing above a sewer grate
with the billowing hot wind flushing up our skirt so all could see
what's down below. But we were just walking. These new lips---Oooks, we
shouted---they look pretty good right? Out of all the stuff that usually
floats down, these lips are probably our favorite. The tinkerer was
right though, they do take some getting used to---oopsoopsooops, how
hilarious! We're not entirely sure how it works, but things float down
from above that can be used in different ways than they were meant to.
You were probably thinking they're a set of real lips from real a
person, haha---no way! Hard plastic, like the shell of a hermit crab.
The antenna (it's folding) stretches out around a meter or so when fully
extended. There are two dials: one that controls the volume and another
to channel surf. These lips can really groove when they're turned all
the way up. But they only pick up a few channels. Speaking of course,
isn't as easy as it seems. You've got to tune yourself to the radio so
it can broadcast properly, otherwise it's mostly static.

We soon cross paths with Mariana and we walk for a time, through the
crablands to the other end of the marsh, then part ways, explaining to
each other that we'd love to see each other more but these days we
simply haven't the time. It is a lie on both our parts of course. We've
never really liked each other to begin with, but a walk is often better
with company than alone, especially when the tide is low. Nearby is a
rock and we sit down for a spell, scanning channels to see what we can
pick up. The most interesting broadcast is about toy ducks that keep on
washing up on the shore of some country far away. It reminds me of my
lips. There are several others here who have them, which makes them not
so unique, more like a fad really. Keeping up with fashion at the bottom
of the sea---or above it, it seems---is no small task. We've left our
rock behind, headed toward home now. On the way we stop in at Jarrod's
to pick up some *acelga* for our mother; she makes the most unimaginable
pies. As we wait in line we fiddle with the knobs of our lips, trying to
get it just right before it's our turn. When it finally is, the
shopkeeper greets us warmly and we try to ask for what we need, but all
that comes out is static, high-pitched and ear piercingly loud. The
windows crack, then break. He snatches the lips off our face and shakes
his head disapprovingly. *Get out*, he says. Without any lips, we're
unable to protest.
