---
layout: posts
title: Hurricane Season
description: Hurricane Season by Fernanda Melchor reviewed by Matt Lee
author: Matt Lee
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... When you think you've started to piece the puzzle together, Melchor introduces a seed of doubt ...
date: 2020-03-30
issue: summer-2020
reviewer: true
writer: Fernanda Melchor
image: '/assets/img/summer2020_og/hurricane.jpg'
width: 600
height: 967
---

I've been reading too much. Like you, I've been a shut-in for months
now. Books are a nice escape, but I can feel myself losing touch with
reality. The few times I've ventured to visit a friend or family member,
I feel as if I've unlearned even the most basic social conventions.
Words feel ugly in my mouth, speech clumsy. I'm forgetting how to be a
human.

Writing likewise has never seemed more frivolous. I replay clips of
soulless pigs decked out in riot gear pummelling women, children, the
elderly. Breonna Taylor's birthday has come and gone, and still her
murderers walk freely among us. I hear George Floyd crying out for his
mother. I can't put words to paper. My mind is clogged with blood.

Given the backdrop of rampant police brutality and the staggering loss
of life from a pandemic that could've been avoided if our fascist
leaders privileged people instead of profit, I was somewhat hesitant to
tackle Fernanda Melchor's *Hurricane Season*. Here is a novel stuffed
with atrocity, which translator Sophie Hughes describes as "difficult
but not demanding," easy to swallow prose with stomach churning subject
matter. Still, I'd heard too many writers I respect singing Melchor's
praises, so I decided to grit my teeth and brave the storm.

*Hurricane Season* opens with an image that is simultaneously horrific
and serene---"...the rotten face of a corpse floating among the rushes
and the plastic bags swept in from the road on the breeze, the dark mask
seething under a myriad of black snakes, smiling." And so the scene is
set. A brutal murder has taken place on the outskirts of a small Mexican
town called Villagarbosa (apparently a fictional stand-in for Veracruz).
The victim is a woman known only as "the Witch," a reclusive but
formidable figure who lives in a decaying mansion amidst a swathe of
sugarcane fields.

Sporting a black funeral dress with a veil perpetually covering her
face, the Witch provides folk remedies at no charge for the locals who
call upon her services. She is loathed and revered in equal measure.
Rumors abound regarding a secret room bolted shut on the mansion's
second floor. Some locals claim this is where the Witch conceals her
riches, piles of gold coins and dazzling jewels. Others believe the room
contains an infernal statue of the Devil himself, outfitted with a
massive phallus for the Witch to pleasure herself with.

The formula couldn't be more simplistic---this is a murder mystery
through and through. Everyone wants to know who killed the Witch. In
fact, we get the answer early in the novel, but the grisly particulars
of why and how the Witch was murdered are not revealed until the gut
wrenching conclusion.

Melchor's use of a nonlinear structure compliments the dizzying array of
voices, which often shift within a single sentence. These seamless
transitions between the kaleidoscopic perspectives are spectacular,
reminiscent of Evan Dara's criminally underread masterpiece *The Lost
Scrapbook*. Long, winding sentences can become cumbersome, but Melchor
manages to bring a certain measure of control to even the most unwieldy
lines, some of which span several pages: "A horrifying sight, people
said, because by the time those kids found her, the body was already
bloated and her eyes had popped out, her face had been half eaten by
some animal and it looked like the crazy bitch, the poor thing, was
smiling, horrifying, and, when all's said and done, a shame, goddammit,
because deep down she was a good egg, always helping them out, and she
never charged them or asked for more than a bit of company..."

Throughout the book, gossip and hearsay become the primary modes of
delivering information. Because we never hear directly from the Witch
herself, every narrator is unreliable. Characters give contradictory
accounts of the same events, creating a permanent sense of uncertainty.
When you think you've started to piece the puzzle together, Melchor
introduces a seed of doubt. Reading *Hurricane Season* is a constant
guessing game, but this makes it all the more satisfying to decipher the
clues.

None of the characters can fully be trusted. Some go by multiple names,
others long dead are only provided a voice through others. The frequent
use of a collective voice---wherein the point of view seems to come from
the town itself---instantly reminded me of Faulkner's "A Rose For
Emily." Further still, both center around reclusive, misunderstood women
living in formerly grand estates gone to ruin. And the clincher that
seals their lineage---both women are hiding a terrible secret behind
locked doors.

Whereas Faulkner's story is American to a tee, Melchor's writing has a
distinctly Mexican quality, Narco Gothic instead of southern. In a
[conversation between the author and
translator](http://southwestreview.com/la-realidad-mexicana-an-interview-with-fernanda-melchor/){:target="_blank"},
Sophie Hughes praises Melchor's portrayal of "la realidad m√©xicana"
("Mexican reality"). Hughes' English translation captures this reality
by maintaining the poetic integrity of the original Spanish, especially
in those page-length sentences, which savor the flexibility of language.
Hughes also strategically peppers untranslated Spanish phrases and
Mexican colloquialisms, adding a unique patois. Yes, the Spanish is in
italics---a convention that has become increasingly senseless to
me---but thankfully Hughes is careful not to overdo it.

The book is rife with delightful profanities and slang. Much of the
humor comes from the outrageous insults the characters spew at each
other. In an early chapter, one of the narrators describes her cousin
and his friends as "...useless, spineless shirkers, every single one of
them, a bunch of pathetic, sponging, fucked-up junkies. They should be
locked up and ass-fucked and then disappeared."

What makes the comedic aspects so unsettling is the omnipresent
depravity and violence surrounding the narrative. Torture, rape, and
paedephelia are commonplace enough that many of the characters become
desensitized participants. A cornucopia of drugs numbs their pain, while
also making them even more vulnerable. Police officers menace the people
they're supposed to protect, gang members dole out their own macabre
form of justice, family members abuse one another without repercussion.

And yet, even the most vicious characters are written with indelible
nuance. Many are both callous and compassionate in equal measure. I find
this effect disturbing as it forces the reader to sympathize with
characters who have committed heinous crimes. Morality becomes muddled
as the novel progresses, blurring the line between good and evil until
they become almost indistinguishable.

One of the most powerful sections is told from the perspective of an
underage girl who has been sexually abused. She finds solace in reading
a tattered book called *Fairy Tales for Children of All Ages*, drawn to
one story in particular that recounts a witch's sabbath deep in the
woods. This intersection of gritty noir and surreal fantasy is certainly
in keeping with the long-rooted Latin American tradition of magic
realism, steeping Villagarbosa and its inhabitants with a potent
mythology.

Melchor has delivered an intensely engaging and thought provoking new
novel, her first to be translated into English. She explores the
consequences of repressed sexuality and unchecked lust, giving a
scathing yet empathetic critique of not only Mexican society but
humanity as a whole. This book is challenging in its depictions of
violence---especially against children---yet this is what also makes it
an incredibly brave and compelling work. The narrative is as dark as it
gets. Still, Melchor manages to inject a measure of hope at the novel's
conclusion. The hurricane brings destruction and misery, while also
creating the conditions necessary for new growth, new life. The cycle of
nature mirrors the cycle of trauma, until the rain washes everything
away.

*Hurricane Season* by Fernanda Melchor is available through [New
Directions](https://www.ndbooks.com/book/hurricane-season-1/#/){:target="_blank"}.

<img src="{{ '/assets/img/summer2020/hurr.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="img-fluid mx-auto my-4 d-block" alt="Hurricane Season Photo"/>
