---
layout: posts
title:  Immersion
description: Immersion - a creative nonfiction piece by Vivian Montgomery
author: Vivian Montgomery
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... a person could be very ill, weak, forlorn, and if all they were able to do was soften into the embrace of this water, that would be enough. I floated and slowly turned ...
date: 2020-03-10
issue: summer-2020
image: '/assets/img/summer2020_og/vivian.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---

I must have used the right word to describe myself---shattered? Whatever
it was, it inspired Hollis to ask, "How do you feel about rituals?"
Purifying baths ... healing ... wholeness ... "Why not? What do I
have to lose?" and with those dispassionate words, I dryly dipped my
proverbial toe into what my apathy saw as an illusion of cleansing
waters. I was to go to the Jewish bath, the *mikveh*, and Hollis would
arrange it and go with me. I knew nothing of what it meant for her to go
with me. Into the water? Naked? Dunking my head? Bathing me? All things
were possible because what seems imaginary can also seem limitless.

Purification from what? Healing from what? I now can see that my sorrow
was another body of water I had been soaking in, but it was stale and
still, like a glacial kettle pond. Perhaps the first collection, the
grief of losing my mother, had run silky and clear like meltage from
some delicate mountain, worthy of splashing its cold clarity onto my
face. But the pond had soon become crowded by debris---murky,
impenetrable, a swampy seepage of grievances.

There were polluting streams from the death of an old friend my age, my
father withdrawing into damaged silence and dependency, a child forming
inside me and then dying and expelling itself, my living child maturing
and refusing my touch, and finally the menacing rivulets of cancer
settling in my uterus, the offending organ removed from my body, but
leaving me skittish and winded. These were the waters I was soaking in,
with unfathomably heavy limbs, impossible to move through with any
grace.

Since Rosh Hashana and Yom Kippur, my thoughts had been swirling around
the concept of *T'shuvah---*returning, atonement, returning,
atonement---and I had started to feel an essential truth that whatever
would bring me balance, unity, contentment, was already inside of me, to
be found, to be returned to, if only I could swim the gulf of
selfâ€‘recrimination and regret. So there was already a little readiness,
but I read up on the mikveh website to get a fuller picture of what it
really meant to make oneself ready.

If ever there was proof that reading about something on the web brings
*no* insight into the reality you're investigating, this was it. I tried
to envision myself cleaning under my nails, emptying my bladder,
scrubbing my callouses as part of some sacred process; I imagined myself
slowly walking down the seven steps into the water but was obstructed by
the image of Hollis walking down them right behind me, seeing my naked
posterior for the first time. So the holiness wasn't coming to me. I
tried to believe that something would transport me, fill me with
meditative focus so that none of these banalities would interfere. I can
grasp now that the purification doesn't come from keeping your mind pure
and uncluttered through the whole process, it comes from simply having
gone through the process. Period. Your mind is the same, still thinking
its thoughts, but the housing is different, the soul has expanded and
the body has released itself, just a little, from its past.

We met up on the appointed day---I had tried to tell Hollis she didn't
need to come with me, still thinking of us awkwardly standing naked
together in lukewarm water---but it meant too much to both of us for her
not to be there. And the story she told me before we entered the
building, of how she had been refused access to a mikveh before her
wedding, provided me with perspective about how different *this* place
was, and what it would be like to have the longer tradition of the
mikveh's rigidity and disapproval as your frame of reference.

She showed me the bench honoring women who had found refuge there from
abusive homes, she showed me the pool collecting rainwater, and she
seamlessly brought me into a state of loving where I was before anything
had even happened. It is important to love where you are, the sky, the
leaves, the light, the voices, the possibility of having a quiet snack
after you've had your spirit and body made whole. Hollis was there to
remind me of that, to teach me that, since it might well be that I
didn't know it fully before.

She had said that she pretty much liked all the mikveh ladies at Mayyim
Hayyim, and our "lady," Leah, was also quick to say that one
revolutionary element put into place there was that everyone was nice.
What was there not to be nice about? But then I was in the preparation
room, reading my instructions, removing all impurities and obstacles,
and I started to imagine the vigilant eyes of an embittered attendant
watching me and critiquing my thoroughness. This image actually made me
hurry, so I was done with the steps of exfoliating, flossing, scrubbing
in no time. When I looked at myself in the mirror, I knew I had missed
something. I had read the readings, I had paused at intervals, I had
proceeded, but I hadn't enjoyed.

I started again. I got back in the bathtub and ran the water over me to
feel it, to picture it washing away particles and flakes. I massaged my
scalp and soaked my head. I spread my toes and found creases I never
knew about. Out of the tub, I flossed and brushed again, staying with
each tiny episode not so much to get that tooth or that space cleaner,
but to feel its presence, to know it was there. I attended to my ears, I
looked up my nose. I might have been removing small physical barriers,
but of greater significance was the barrier I was removing by allowing a
different type of time to evolve---I was exploring a limited environment
the way a baby would, as though it was the whole world.

I wrapped in the sheet and dialed \#200 on the phone to say I was ready.
Hollis and Leah came in with my laminated document for meditations and
instructions. It turned out they were going to stay fully clothed. They
took the sheet from around me and held it up to create a screen so I
could walk down the steps into the water in total privacy. I felt the
base of my foot on each step. Once in the water, I turned a large spigot
to allow some of the outside rainwater to come in, living water
"kissing" the warm water of the pool. I felt its coolness and movement
as it gushed in and I allowed it to push me backward a bit. The stone
tiles around me were comforting, forgiving, and sunlight poured through
the windows high above in the echoing chamber.

It wasn't until I read the prayer before the first immersion, stating
that I had come here to find healing for my body and spirit, that I
realized I was there because something had been terribly wrong and that
I was, in fact, seeking what these waters were meant to give. I rolled
forward into the water, my feet left the ground, my head sank down, and,
upon resurfacing, I heard the chorus of Hollis's and Leah's voices
saying "Kasher"---they had watched me over the top of the sheet, I had
done well, my hair had gotten fully submerged, I could go on. I laughed
to myself, imagining the unforgiving little mikveh lady telling a cowed
naked girl that it wasn't right, she had to do it again. And again.

Before the second immersion, the meditation was on pain ceasing, finding
strength, being surrounded by joy and, once again, I was surprised to
find how much I wanted what was being offered. I spun forward, almost
ravenous to feel the water around me. "Kasher" said my chorus as I
emerged.

Then, for the third immersion, it was about relaxing, being surrounded
and held---a person could be very ill, weak, forlorn, and if all they
were able to do was soften into the embrace of this water, that would be
enough. I floated and slowly turned. I was worried I hadn't gotten fully
immersed, my movement was so quiet, and I had stayed under so long, I
didn't hear them when I came back up. "Was it OK?" I asked and they said
boisterously "Kasher!"

Leah asked if I wanted to stay there alone for a bit. I did. I was
overcome by the clarity of the steps I had taken, that had been taken
for me---to acknowledge the need to heal, to seek wholeness, to ask the
pain and fear to cease, to let strength and happiness enter, and to find
release, to find peace. Is it automatic that tears will blend with the
waters of immersion? It seemed so, and the salty taste that dripped onto
my lips seemed more my own than it had before.

I didn't know whether they'd come back to get me, so I stood in the
water a little longer, looking up at the rays of light coming through
the windows. Nobody came so I got out, walked slowly and solidly up the
seven steps, wrapped in my sheet and went back into the preparation
room, which was now a room through which I returned to reality. A
reality of clothes and mirrors and combs, lotion, deodorant. A reality
of finding a testy note from the neighboring synagogue left on Hollis's
windshield warning her that she was parked illegally. A reality of
deciding what the best and most convenient lunch options were.

Many things were said over lunch as Hollis and I debriefed, many
insights and questions were poured over, but most resonant was my
new-found clarity that this transcendence, this renewal, didn't depend
upon fiercely clinging to mindfulness, trying to keep the troubling
facets of my life outside of my consciousness. As a yogi wannabe, a
feeble meditator, I've been prone to berating myself for allowing toxic
or shallow thoughts to intrude upon my moments of enlightenment. In
fact, the central intention of my recent meditative practice has been to
release my mind from that very self-criticism. Layers upon layers of
tortured, complicated seeking, grasping at fleeting encounters with
clarity as though they were, well, liquid cupped in my hands. But here
was something that was simply *there,* a permanent part of me, a measure
that had been taken. This was water that stayed lapping around me, and I
didn't have to do anything to keep it with me. Except remember it.

That night, my son Ezra came home from a class late and it seemed, while
we were sitting at the kitchen table together, that we wouldn't have the
energy to do the 10 minutes of daily Hebrew study we had committed to.
"Well, maybe we could do just one chapter," I said, and he only
protested a little. One chapter flowed into another and another, and
soon we had decided to finish the book. It was past midnight when we had
gotten to the "Congratulations!" page, but we each felt the urge to put
our new expertise to use by writing something out. I laboriously shaped
the letters for what I thought would be just a line or two of the
Mourner's Kaddish, but one line drifted slowly into another and another,
and soon the whole thing was there, crooked and misspelled like a
child's work. And there was something else childlike and unfamiliar---I
was proud of this product, nothing else, just proud.

The next day, I took a walk through Lawrence Woods in the late
afternoon, the ground crunching beneath my feet and sun streaming in
across the foliage. I sent a text message to Hollis---"How do you say
'light' in Hebrew?" and she responded right away---"*Or*". I think I'll
ask her the word for "floating."
