---
layout: posts
title: Becoming a troll
description: A short story by Selena Cotte â€“ Becoming a troll
author: Selena Cotte
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... I woke up one day and found myself transformed into a troll ...
date: 2021-04-15
issue: spring-2021
image: '/assets/img/spring2021_og/cotte.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---

I woke up one day and found myself transformed into a troll. In
hindsight, I should have seen it coming. I had been slowly allowing
myself to transform. Earlier that year, I had a personal vendetta
against a song lyric website. It allowed you to post your interpretation
of the songs, but I always found myself terribly depressed at the lack
of serious interpretive thought. Words were defined mindlessly, no
connotations or relevant cultural events truly considered. I tried to
infiltrate the community, to bring some kind of cohesion and
thoughtfulness to what I considered a promising endeavor in public
humanities, but my efforts were not appreciated. My contributions were
often removed, and I got a warning email that threatened to take my
account away permanently. All because I had the balls to point out the
political and cultural implications of an Ariana Grande track.

In that time of my life, I formed many of the personal vendettas I carry
with me to this day, including that one and against many of my fellow
student journalists. I had just been pushed out of the college
newspaper's Opinions desk, as I had one too many controversial opinions.
Anyway, there was a pause between then and when I could find my next job
when I had all this energy and nowhere to put it.

I was only a student by the thinnest margins, having taken all but the
last of my necessary credits for graduation. I had just moved out of the
dorms, supposedly in with my ex, but he left me the second I came back
from study abroad in Rome. So, I moved in with some medical student, who
was never home except when she was asleep.

I was very lonely, having known of no parties or groups who might start
one with me. I often spent my nights ridden with insomnia, listening to
music at all hours of the night. It didn't matter what kind, so long as
I could lose myself in it. Rap, post-hardcore, indie pop, jazz. I became
obsessed, particularly, with contemporary lyrics, trying in my head to
categorize the references and double entendres. That's how I found the
website.

When that failed, I kept trying to direct my attention to good, but it
was not welcome. It turns out, people online don't actually want to have
productive conversations. So I mouthed off on a few Reddit threads, in
some dark corners of the internet. They started off being my opinions,
but veered off into parodies of others, even myself. Ways to get angrier
folks in the world to burst off, to make me feel stable by comparison. I
knew something was up when I started thinking like the enemy, coming up
with new and exciting ways to trip them up on their own agendas.

"I don't know, it just seems like the Jonas Brothers are really Jews who
play up a manufactured image of Christianity to more appropriately
dominate a largely Gentile audience," I once wrote anonymously on a
platform known for its unsavory conspiracy theories. "Think about it:
The Walt Disney Co. made them famous. GUYS. DISNEY."

For a while it was enlightening, and for a shorter while it was even
fun. But it mostly felt hollow and unsatisfying.

Soon I graduated and found myself with bigger questions to address, a
sense that I should be Doing Something Productive with my time,
something I could be proud of someday. I considered grad school, but I
couldn't bear the idea of *more* time in class. *I just want to make the
world a better place, even in the smallest and most insignificant of
ways,* I thought*. Maybe that will make me feel whole.*

I was very young and unbalanced then, easily persuaded into Big Ideas
and Get Spiritually Rich Quick Schemes, especially when they were
tainted with irreverence and further avoidance of all things sincere and
natural. I was also influenced by others who made the internet work for
them in broadly immense ways. People's lives were being carried by the
strength of their digital networks. If you knew how to game it, you
could grift and grift and never grow up. I became reinvigorated with
purpose.

It wasn't difficult to find other lonely accounts online, who I could
easily impress with carefully considered gameplays. We were all in it
together, creating chaos to ease our own anxieties about the world. It's
not actually that hard to become a united force with others, either for
evil or for good. People want to be given a reason to keep doing what
they're doing, especially when they really shouldn't be doing what
they're doing.

One night, we were perusing the trending hashtags for something to
subvert when someone posted an image of himself transformed into a troll
to our group Discord PoonTang Clan. "I dreamt of a bridge last night,
that I was stuck beneath it," he wrote. "Now, I know it was more than a
dream."

"Nice one, bro," a user called HitlersNutz wrote. "You almost fooled
me."

"This is a 'shop," FonzieCanGetIt posted. "I can tell because of the
pixels."

I agreed with Fonzie. The lines on his bedroom wall looked wavy, and his
legs were disproportionately long. It looked like one of Khloe
Kardashian's Instagram posts. I dismissed the attempt to troll the
trolls; besides, we weren't really trolls. Just internet weirdos, tasked
with the burden of keeping people in disarray, reminding them they
shouldn't get too comfortable online.

Others, however, believed the poster, and feared for their own states of
being. "could this happen to me??" JaundicedPussy69 posted before
deleting their account. "this exact thing occured in my last group,"
HumongousWot noted solemnly. "If you want my advice," a comment written
by VoraciousVore420 started, "I say we just welcome any crossover. I say
we become proud to be trolls."

And so when I woke up in a troll's body, it was not a real surprise. I
looked exactly the same, in fact. Same curly hair, same acne scars that
I'd given up on covering up with concealer. But I knew in my heart the
change had occurred, that I had found my place in the world and would be
unable to rejoin polite society. The mark of the troll stays with me to
this day. Others sense it, walking by quickly at the grocery store. I'm
careful to avoid any bridges, lest I play into stereotypes. It is simply
my life now. I am not proud, but I also cannot say I am ashamed.
