---
layout: posts
title: Béla Kiss Goes to the Theatre
description: A short story by David Kuhnlein – Béla Kiss Goes to the Theatre
author: David Kuhnlein
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... The ticket is to a theater near the Sacred Heart of Montmartre ...
date: 2021-04-05
issue: spring-2021
image: '/assets/img/spring2021_og/kuhnlein.jpg'
width: 640
height: 425
---

The ticket is to a theater near the Sacred Heart of Montmartre: "Theatre
of Cruelty, 'Thirty-Two', Tax Included, ADMIT ONE, 10c, Good Only
December 28 1921."

I perch in Paris for the emasculated years following my war. Art now is
a nostalgia for the battlefield. Yipping through an obsession will never
compare to the atrocities that stirred it, this rigor mortis muse
everyone else finally sees. These artists took a broom with them to the
crypt. In a passing wind, some Greek-blooded escapee from the booby
hatch pretends to act out my crimes, dancing like a Balinese woman. For
someone so enamored with disorder, his pageant is quite diagnostic. I'm
interested in neither madness, nor the theatre, but I'm curious which
lovely actresses auditioned to sit inside my barrels. Androgynous
flappers lull outside the door. I parse the murk of perfume, tomboys
indulging their pre-show ritual. I fiddle with the harness in my jacket.
How it would contort each laugh. If only the blood of French women
weren't so crunchy. I soak in the mosque, pompous cathedral spikes prod
the rafters. Men and women in thick furs parade by, manqué Coco Chanels.
Bobbed hair, anus-eyed makeup, jangly wrists, an epilepsy of honking
hardware.

I approach the free-standing grandstand. A hunchback peels the purple
curtain back behind the glass. Mop hair obscuring his eyes, he points
toward the double doors, reaching with a small blade, shouting
inarticulately, "Lo kundum! A papa! Da mama! Lokin a kata dima!" Words
to retard the soul. To flex your fear in a mirror. "Ticket," he jitters,
involuntarily, the muscles of his face a mask. My glossolalist, the
shell-shocked shadow of a twitch, points the knife to his temple,
self-punishment, perhaps, for not recognizing a Sadhu, or a scenic
element for the next in line. The terminal meningitis supported by art
types, smithereens for inspiration, all at the expense of our microbial
populace.

The cushion of my red velvet seat is torn down the center, as if
something emerged from it during the previous showing. We surround the
stage in a spiral formation. As the hall dims, I see the faces of each
ticket holder spotlighted. "What's this play about," someone mutters.
"The Vampire of Cinkota," I let slip. "More god than man." The play
opens with what look like giant insects hung by wires buzzing around the
stage in triangular patterns. A gong strike halts their wings. Now they
appear in the light as severed hands dripping sand on the stage from
their stumps. A young man crawls from the mound. Piercing eyes, a
medical cloak. In a feat of prestidigitation, he pulls volumetric
flasks, beakers, test tubes, graduated cylinders, and medicines
endlessly from bulging pockets, encasing himself in a teetering house of
glass. A student of his approaches from the back of the room, hands him
a book. He opens it, reads a passage, nods. The hunchback who took my
ticket emerges from the ceiling, suspended upside down in a
straitjacket. More gongs and bells reach an unpleasant crescendo. A
diseased bat, half his words stick in the spit of his throat. "Engaged
to a young man of noble birth, this young student is pregnant. Her
fiancé has abandoned her." A woman crawls around the stage, smearing
herself with imbrued sand. She thrusts her abdomen, bouncing beneath a
rag wrap. "She speaks to this medicine man, needing some occult
intervention. The young man tells her to see him just before midnight."
Pompous mericlone pig shit aficionado! I would never wear a lab coat.

"The young man lives alone." The hunchback is yanked back into the
rafters. Several times the young man peers out a window. Books and
flasks line the walls. He opens a book to the sound of a church organ
and sits as if in prayer. Spectators watch in awe as the young woman
from before, cleaned up a bit, rings his door. No one speaks onstage. He
walks so slowly to answer that the candle covers his hand in wax. She
stands before him, wailing, having waited so long she's pregnant and
comes to term. At the window, an aquatic world of fibers, exploding
globules of air. His lips form a question. Paws scratch the pane. She
silently weeps. Bestial heads appear, crowned in garlands and tresses of
flowers. The spotlight widens. A specter approaches them. The young man
draws a sword, realizing the face of the specter is the same as his
reflection in the hilt. "The master is expecting you. He's downstairs."
The words come from the suspended cripple, but we're to assume he speaks
to his reflection, which disappears.

Exhibit A for the damage an ease of access to the variety of innovative
poisons and explosives any world war can contribute: this very cascade
of asinine Punchinello. Sexpots dressed as cats and bears. Scatologists
picking through their corn, expansive grins prepared for a heated
after-theater coffee and critique. Gobbledygook! None of them have
measured the galvanism of backtracked eupnea, the true craft. I'd rather
be sequestered in a dungeon for the crime of coming here. The hole in my
chair grows wider with every blast of the gong. I get the feeling that
these stage rats are puppets of some unseen mathematics, stranded in a
division of integers leaching their gestures, peeling seconds from bones
parallel with the stage. Let's bring them closer to zero. The shape of
my hands when they gag. All these queer art movements crop up like
barbequed crusades. The gas produced by digesting reactionaries spreads
too thin. Dada in Switzerland and New York. Surrealism here in Paris,
another response to the war, supposedly. Their manifestos come like
moths putting out matches by dying. Every germ with a brain effects its
paper. The attraction to nonsense as a defense mechanism for mortality.
Intellectualized crossdressing, an attempted escape from adulthood, like
stirring the peephole in a boys' shower. Which version of Marxism will
finally deem pussy obsolete?

I can't stomach more of my life depicted via diarrhea. 'Thirty-Two' he
calls it, multiplying my barrels. Storming out, woozy, I glance again.
They've rolled barrels onto the stage. Some soldier pokes through the
metal lid with his bayonet like a can of beans. Their blue carcass
smells spill, gloomily disvalued. Little fissures float to crimp my
spine. I feel faint, but understand the geometry of the void well enough
to anticipate each footprint. I curse this playwright's rectum.
Illuminate me with lies, I shall root through your lesser derangements
till they amplify geyser-wide. An actor cannot understand his own blood
because it is someone else's memory repeated, circulated by proxy, a
misadjusted perception dependent on profit. I won't subject myself to a
tinfoil growl, unleavened pelvic melodrama. This nuthouse vulture isn't
even authentic when he takes a bath. He let the snake nibble at its tail
till it spat itself up.

Near the "SORTIE" sign: "Produced by Antonin Artaud". The dull legality
of his name in triplet. Portrayer of faux-risky rubber stamp morality. I
am certain his hands are softer than a lady. Not even in the memento of
a split-end will he see me. My holy name did too much coitus with his
spoon and dropper. May all our balls stay cinched in straw. Such purple
wet works obscure the Seine's suicides. His spirit is sooty with overdue
bills. I am alone with a baker's dozen voices groaning my name, writing
it crookedly on the track salt. I await the heavy chain, the lashing of
the Metro. Long black coats flutter by like premature myths, sick
phantoms drunk on a fad. I should break their tongues till there's
something more to say.
