---
layout: posts
title: Heart of Gold / A Burning Shape
description: An essay by Kat Giordano—Heart of Gold / A Burning Shape
author: Kat Giordano
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... Blair was co-captain of the swim team and built like it ...
date: 2021-04-04
issue: spring-2021
image: '/assets/img/spring2021_og/giordano.jpg'
width: 626
height: 454
---

Blair was co-captain of the swim team and built like it. He was tall and
pale and kept his electric white hair buzzed impossibly close to his
scalp, this marble-carved, hyper-efficient human specimen. I mostly knew
him as my friend Matt's roommate, the guy who'd spend the whole party
smoking in the attic but only become more articulate, somehow, as the
night went on. The guy who'd make sly little digs at my then-boyfriend
who treated me badly, pointing out the things our friends were all a bit
too keen to ignore. When Blair was in the room, there was no getting
away with anything. He'd say exactly what was going on, point out when
someone was being disingenuous or rude---all with this little smirk. It
made my breath catch in my throat, and he knew it.

Art History class was where it really popped off. Blair and I were the
only ones there out for more than an easy A. We'd monopolize the room,
our classmates just casualties in our sexual-tension-fueled intellectual
battle to the death over nothing. What was there to debate in Art
History? I don't remember the details, just wanting to make him sweat.
I'd walk in every day with my latte and my music blaring and plop down
next to him with a flourish, somehow convinced my theatrics would get
his attention, or make me look cool. But we didn't speak much outside of
class discussions. Our rapport didn't translate well to that kind of
accessible small talk. On Fridays I'd ask him if he'd be at the house
later, and almost always he'd say yeah, he would.

I liked sitting on their living room floor. This specific spot on the
carpet right in front of the couch. Both roommates would make fun of me.
There was almost always room for me elsewhere, but the floor was my
spot. Every weekend I'd kick my shoes off and squat behind the coffee
table, and Blair would be behind me on the couch, smoking a bowl,
saying, "Ah shit, there she goes, right to her spot." It made me feel
cute, like I'd been noticed.

When the nights wound down, we'd triangulate with music. Matt liked
synth pop. Blair liked hip-hop. He had this almost-neurotic obsession
with rappers as a concept, like an anthropological fascination with
them. When it was my turn, I'd put on anything I thought wouldn't bore
them. YouTube video after YouTube video on Matt's PS4 as the group
dropped like flies. There'd be a standoff at the end, with Blair and I
fighting sleep in the darkened living room, hoping to squeeze in one
more video, trying to one-up each other with our next entry in the
queue. Once he played "Sweater Weather" by The Neighbourhood, which he
discovered and then instantly filed away as something I'd probably like.
I didn't have the heart to tell him I'd already heard the song so many
times before---and yes, enjoyed it. I just stared ahead and listened,
reacting every so often to give the impression of naïve, virgin ears.
Peppering my little oohs and ahhs over my boyfriend's drunken snoring
beside me on the pull-out as Blair's eyes met mine in the blue glow of
the TV. One night, neither of us could sleep, and he scurried off into
the kitchen at 3 AM to make the two of us tater tots from scratch.

Things got weird with Blair and I, but never too weird. They got
heavier, but never really heavy. Blair knew how to toe the line with his
comments. There was at least one about my ass while I sat crouched in
front of him on the living room floor. Once, he speculated that I talk
so much I probably wouldn't even shut up during sex. Like he'd been
imagining. When he said these things I didn't know how to react,
regressing to the confused, hot pseudo-rage of my younger self being
teased by the jocks at my middle school. No, stop, you're being so
gross! stop but don't stop! saying all of this is just something I have
to do for some reason! Protesting too much, all the time. Thinking back,
I wonder if everyone could feel the plain white heat under all that
disavowal. Matt, the rest of our friends---maybe even my boyfriend,
though he never minded when it came to this or much of anything else.
Maybe I looked like an ass, being so publicly a part of what was between
us. But what right did they have to judge? I'd spent years wasting away,
utterly deprived, and suddenly, here it was: white-hot buzzcut
nourishment.

Now, at 26, I know that Blair thought I was pretty. But at 22, I didn't
understand this, wasn't used to the kind of attention he would give me.
I would keep myself up at night trying to parse his comments and
ascertain the vibe of our conversations, trying to figure out if he had
a real interest in me or if I was just a friend of a friend. If there
was a respect there, or I was a kind of oddity. The other guys I knew
were so upfront about their interest in people, and especially their
attraction. They had no ability to restrain themselves whenever there
was someone hot in a movie we were watching, or a name came up of some
girl they'd met back in high school or at a party. Blair didn't seem to
share this attitude. I went to several parties with Blair and watched
several movies with beautiful women and never witnessed a single awooga,
even in jest. His occasional comments were the extent of it, always
half-joking and reserved only for me. Other girls read him as
pretentious and cold, this sexless robot. I understood what they saw but
didn't see it.

Toward the end of the semester, Blair and I were up late one night after
an evening of our usual tricks. Normally when the music ran dry, we
watched this YouTube series where 2 Chainz tried out ridiculously
expensive things to see if they were actually worth the money, like \$95
burgers and gold-flecked weed. But this time, Blair had different fare
in mind. He must have made some introduction, but I can't recall it. I
just remember him turning on this specific version of Neil Young's
"Heart of Gold" where he was live on stage. I think it was an early
version, like maybe he was playing it live for the first time. A short
clip of banter between Neil and the audience as he rifled through his
pocket full of harmonicas all tuned to different keys. Then it began,
and we sat and listened.

That's all that happened: we sat and listened.

Maybe you just had to be there. I'm sure that's also what everyone in
that audience would have said if you went up to them and asked them how
it felt to hear "Heart of Gold" performed live for the very first time
in the 70s. They would shake their heads at you, the way oldheads always
do when you talk to them about the music that came out back then, like
you look so pathetic trying to siphon your own meaning and retcon
yourself into their lives. It's not going to seem novel, the way I
describe it. We all know how it feels to get to know someone. I picture
a flower bud opening, fanning itself out in the dead of night for no
witness. He had opened up to me and I felt chosen. Special. Even now, I
wonder what it meant for him to play that song that night. We didn't
talk about it, and it's likely he doesn't remember, not the way I do.
Enraptured by him enraptured by the screen, I looked through his skin at
this well of deep pain. Or if not necessarily pain, then loneliness. Or
if not necessarily loneliness, then a need to be understood. A burning
shape desperate to be filled. My eyes wandered to the slumped silhouette
of my boyfriend, who'd passed out drunk on the couch earlier in the
night, and I understood then why this ache felt so familiar.

I didn't do anything I wasn't supposed to do. We didn't stare into each
other's eyes over a long silence and stumble to his bed in a ball of
desperate incoherence. We watched a few more videos and then I guess we
each went to sleep. In the morning, Blair got up for swim practice, and
I pretended to be asleep as I listened to his footsteps from bedroom to
bathroom to kitchen and out the front door. Then I woke up again and it
was just my boyfriend and everyone else. The space where Blair had sat
and unfurled for me just hours before was bare. Not a shred of evidence,
though I half-expected some part of him to be left coiled there like the
skin of a snake.

I thought about him in the shower---not in that way, but about what he'd
given me that night, something more special than the obvious. It wasn't
the first time someone had cracked in front of me, but it had always
been violent. Chipping away for months, then guilt once I'd relished
that first glimpse of the soft, pink middle. What had happened with
"Heart of Gold" was voluntary and therefore new. I had softened
something in my hands without any force and felt, finally, powerful and
worth loving. As for me, I didn't know what I'd do had the roles been
reversed. I had no skin, no well to expose. I just milled around, this
naked wound whimpering and leaking with no discernment. Every song was
"Heart of Gold," every touch a 10, every night a full moon. I often felt
I had nothing to give anyone.

Once I dried off it was back to real life, the friends, the boyfriend,
the grey static blah of Everyone Else. Getting dunked on for taking too
long to get ready and needing to do my hair and my makeup. Sitting at
brunch while the guys drooled over girls who'd been given time to do
their makeup and hair that day. Whatever else came with being the Token
Girl of that group, a handful of debuffs I try my best not to remember
these days. We went to the liquor store and picked up a few more bottles
for that night. In my boyfriend's car, I was designated Passenger Seat
DJ but I felt drained of my usual inspiration to play the right thing at
the right time, to create some kind of moment. None of the songs were
"Heart of Gold," and I couldn't play it there in the car with everyone
while they touched and tarnished it.

I think part of me knew that "Heart of Gold" would be the climax for
Blair and me. The semester was ending, and when it did I'd be carted
back to my hometown and he'd to stay finish out the last quarter of his
English degree. I had no idea what was coming except that
friendships---and whatever this was---would be tested. A vague
understanding that new phases would take hold, and these phases would
point away from each other, and parties would end. And texts would just
trail off limply and months later, on a random Tuesday, you'd realize
they had.

I once saw this art series where relationships were represented by two
lines that intersected or drew apart. One set of parallel lines---two
people who would never really know each other. There was one where the
lines both branched outward from a single point of origin, people who
knew each other once, and then drifted. Two braided strands meant to
represent the bond between a human and a dog, the dog's line much
shorter.

The one that was the saddest and most interesting was the one where two
lines started at entirely different points, intersected, then kept
going, like an X. Maybe it's because it's 1 AM but even now, it hurts to
think about. There's no rule stating how fast things move, whether that
intersection lasts a decade or a few months or a one-night stand. Maybe
in the space of that little dot something big and great is built and
babies are born and there are apartments with shoes intermingled and
piled by the doors. But still, all you have is that dot. Ahead of you,
the lines keep going for god knows how long. And the lines are so much
longer relative to the point where you're standing. Might as well be
forever.

A fragmented memory of Matt trying to get me on a fitness kick. Marching
me around the weight room in the gym. The squat bar was right in front
of the window overlooking the pool where Blair practiced. He was there
that day, and according to Matt, he looked up.

Inviting Blair to my senior thesis reading in the campus chapel. There
was a lot going on that day. My parents were meeting my boyfriend's for
the first time and there was a rainstorm and two bouquets of flowers. I
was concerned about reading raunchy poems in a church in front of adults
who might judge me, and not reading too slow, and my flattering intro. I
don't even remember if he came.

A couple texts here and there through the next year. He was thinking of
law school and I worked for a law firm. I was thinking of breaking up
with my boyfriend, then did it---badly. No more Token Girl, no more
dudes and their parties. When the texts trailed off, so did Blair's. I
always wondered what he'd heard about what I'd done and how I was doing.
I wondered what they told him.

A dream I had once, in that time, about Blair in the suburbs. Meeting
his family for dinner. His older sister, warm and teacherly with
bleached teeth, watched me jealously. His parents were impressed. On the
couch downstairs I laid on his shoulder but didn't know why. The dream
honored the nature of us and the lack of closure. We had a weird half of
a conversation about how I want to do this but am I a bad person? He
apologized and took out his penis but it was not right. It was red and
cartoon-looking. It seemed to signal that, hey, this is not actually
what you want, this is what you think you want because this is what you
think you're supposed to do when you feel close to people. You're just
drooling after a bell. I woke up feeling fucked.

This happened years ago. I feel stifled sometimes by the way people
think about writing and memory. Like either I'm 13 or my brain is wired
wrong. If you write about something it must have happened exactly that
way and it must be all you think about, so important to you that you
recite it to yourself every night before going to bed, you sit on the
floor of the shower and cry about it. You think about these things
because you're stunted and you care too much about what people thought
of you in high school or about which people didn't want to fuck you or
whatever. Do people believe that? I read my old diaries a lot---it's
centering to feel the sense of narrative, that you are the culmination
of a bunch of weird encounters. That you're the line, not the little
dot. People scare each other out of getting tattoos of names or song
lyrics because there's a chance they might change as people and their
tattoos will stop making sense. But then, the tattoo signifies a time
where you loved something enough to put it on you permanently. It just
becomes more complex, then. I never saw the problem.

I do still, sometimes, put on "Heart of Gold" and think about that
night. It's not obsession though. I don't pine. There's less to pore
over now. The well I saw in Blair has shown up a few times since then,
in other people, in the dark and on drugs and in empty parking lots,
eating take-out tacos. I feel suspicious that it has more to do with me
than them, the tail wagging the dog a bit. It means there could be love,
and sometimes there is. Two lines cross and diverge. Two lines hear
"Heart of Gold" in the 2 AM light. Two lines cross and wrap around each
other over and over and over. Two lines cross, and in the center, a
burning shape.
