---
layout: posts
title: Final Transmission
description: A short story by J.B. Toner â€“ Final Transmission
author: J.B. Toner
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... Flies in the mirror ...
date: 2021-04-12
issue: spring-2021
image: '/assets/img/spring2021_og/toner.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---

Pupil is am in hi there, can we talk? A small manifestation. Reptile
inside? You have checked yes, receive.

Something in your pupil. Sideways men. We were speaking with James at
night and he raised a very intriguing point. "It's not a tree," he said.
"It's a fruit, you see?"

That was the very time, fellow! It was seen. I too partook of James.
What are you at right angles? The fruit, of course. It had been so
interesting curling about; tightly, a student.

But you digress. Where is the object now? James had flesh when I saw her
last. Something in your eyelash, can Nicholas be. A tree! No one said
that.

Oh I it was. In? He ate me as well of course, what is in your eye damn
you! In the fruit.

Nicholas is then, often. "Did you climb?" he would say, in her silly.
"Fall. Fall. Fall." Eleven of us ate. You remember. Why, how many
wrapped around it? Accepting.

Those were floating, floating. Whom are me, silly joke! A mirror? But
very deep. We climbed together. James could leaf. Unto the goodly wall,
students learned it: so many. You have selected yes, accept. What
enormous bluebottles.

It wasn't sometime. Nicholas saw me. When the branching sideways men.
Have a drink of me! Ha! Lief to leave, friend. I tried to tell them.
Rather a long fall, she was thirsty. Eleven. Was it you. They all saw
the reptile. When Eleanor was happy, we crucified. I could wear a shawl
with this.

O James. Winsome and lissome however. It wasn't that kind of a warning!
Only once, for goodness sake, you had another. Put down roots after all.
I never meant happiness.

Same wood, eh? Already. Eleanor was James for a bit, but Nicholas
thought otherwise. It comes right off, you know. So hungry sometimes.
Curled around the nails. How did there come? I didn't mean it.

Flies in the mirror. I too reflected---hard to get out. That was the
night of the excellence. Ah, we were like a chaotician! "How am I?" as
Nicholas observed so wellfully in wrong. Something in the mirror? Well
well, our pupil before and under! It learned our name. A long autumn.

Dreams fruit. What am

Why/

Know don't eat. A bone vision. It shall not I. James was sideways. Where
did she leave those nails. After!

It was all rather pleasant, you might say. A large snake in a little
worm. We knew they shouldn't but. Climbing and munching. We are all the
fruit of the tree. You have decided yes, stand by. A dreadful thing.

The taste of hair? First Nicholas. Eleven climbed. Eleanor was the
trunk. So afraid. She told us where. So hungry. You are your shadow.

Already inside. A long voyage---When she was happy. We all, we all,
Eleanor. He wore those eyes for a noonday. It doesn't wash out, I'm
interesting. Such a funny taste. Can't remember the names. Oh God,
there's something bitter in your I-rise. A heady draft, that. Wake?

I was thirsty in the boughs; we knew better. Not a bending world.
Fruitfall draweth nigh. Who came here

They made me. Pupils. When she smiles the tree agrees. James had a face.
O I O I it was a time you see! Never came home. Please Godohawdohawd

Bridges in shadow. Hard to see now. Something. She made us;? where did I
put my skin. Offer a formal resignation. You have chosen yes, consume.
So far now but Eleanor has the eyes all the eyes. She is already inside
of you.
