---
layout: posts
title: "Satanas-Aestheticus: The Dragon-Scaled Scribe"
description: "An essay by Lee Levinson â€“ Satanas-Aestheticus: The Dragon-Scaled Scribe"
author: Lee Levinson
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... Poetry, if truth can abscond from form, is a compendium of bestiary ...
date: 2021-04-03
issue: spring-2021
long: true
image: '/assets/img/spring2021_og/levinson.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---

*"the poets rebelled and wrote it with a small 'g'. but no one heard.
and so the poets rebelled and wrote it with no 'g' at all. in the
beginning od created the heavens and the earth. now the people heard.
and they wrote it with a large 'O'."---Michael O\'Donoghue*

Poetry, if truth can abscond from form, is a compendium of bestiary like
delegations of the soothsayer for none, fraught with evil intention.
Satanas Aestheticus, as suggested by the late great Benjamin Decasseres,
affirmed plain as milk for the audience of nil the true intention of the
poet. Milton spelled it out for us. Baudelaire, Poe, Emerson, Shelley,
Verlaine, Davidson, etc, they laid bare the teeming louse raping the
grey matter of the select few. These are the gods in our hands,
venerated and yet ostracized by the public who suicided them. The
classics lay forth the understanding of the profession of the outlier
and yet still to this day 'poetry' is a hate-crimed term used to bolster
up tourists and demean the definition to such as an overpaid
cartographer. Everyone so desperately wants art explained to them
because they were prematurely yet rightfully so cut off from that
somnambulistic oil of aereola's offering. I feel a malicious imp
weighing on my shoulders, growing heavier with each breath; so be it.
Abusus non tollit usum. Philistia must fall.

The lengthy search for an anodyne unknown to man has slowly morphed
itself into a sordid acceptance of embracing symptoms over disease.
Ungrateful hosts of society dare have the gall to determine the worth of
individuals so blasphemous in their inclusionary incendiaries of
acceptance that to scoff at such unworthy gatekeepers would be flattery
in and of itself. The dragon-scaled scribe contends god's existence,
however swarthy, by their vengefulness. For if either of them truly do
exist, to each creator their image is most certainly painted with hues
of tenebrous pigments. All beauty is nymphic at a distance for the
poetaster, distance being the telltale fortitude of the rubbernecker.
The preservation of beauty lies in its ephemerality, a tact fleshen
vestibule grown fat against the blade. Personage as a shadow, ever
pervasive in its tautness, dripping sacrificial wax down the geometric
tree stumps. Ashtrays wherever eyes wander, mommy dearest-ing the wound,
seeking eucharistic wonton salvation amongst the neophytic. Art thou
able to orgasm in proximity to a uniform? If the answer contends
contemplation, your dayjob rules the night. Leave the horrid
amalgamation of extending one's own decadence to those whose skin itself
is the game at hand.

Through pursed lips and locked jaw, the world flops belly up, gurgling
its slatternly sputum, heretically bucolic bird dog, aching for a
portraiture worthy of gilded enclosure. Herein lies the poet's
condition. The alphabet is not free real estate nor has it ever been.
Gabriel staunchly requires the self soothing scar to adorn the foreheads
of those who deny their own entrance, let alone masquerade gumption as a
personal affront to Atticistic monasteries squatting themselves a blue
check mark in the inexcusable fleshen varicose veins on display for
underground Maldororites. In this age of Guyotat mimicry, Lishian
perverse laziness, Hannah knockoff drivel, biblical recipe redaction,
Baudrillard rollercoaster cop-outs, I am a Theophile. A true worshipper
of Aphrodite. A backhand meated vestibule lurking in the sewer grates of
such a post-post- modernist hell which frames my abscessed veins taut as
the separation of sky and salted sea.

"Anesthetized again!" yelps the troubadour of accessible art. Are we as
a conglomerate of wishy washy swayable consumers expected to bareback
the swathe of simplistic forefronts of existence in such a hellish
alabaster reduced to plastics? This unctuous assertion of snide lotion
for the masses to "get comfy" has no place in the annals of art. I
renounce all intention of accessibility over true blue expression for
the sake of unburdening a soul of it's poetic caveat. Vegetative states
cum laude seek to discredit the humility of suffering's awareness in
regards to Satan. Who's microwavable modernity do I have to ethically
protest in defence of Promethean transcription? The current publishing
houses concern themselves fraught with the zodiacal man. I suggest
strychnine to the masses for reeducation of what it truly means to damn
oneself with the investment in such a fatalistic endeavor as poetry.
Death to all designers feigning advancement of art and beauty. When the
lobby is strewn with human excrement from overexposure to the innards of
the individual we, the self chosen, shall contract you to swiftly
zig-zag a pretty picture through the backdoor. Until then, stay seated
and quiet.

Glass bespeckles the rhino sky with grave allotments for purchase, yet
still branded cattle curse those eschewed of silence. Voyeuristic
pedestals perch St. Peter something silly. The sky is most certainly
blue, yes, thank you. Clearly Shakespeare could be summed up neatly
enough to permeate prime time, but in doing so the loss of elusory
beatitudes coruscates wonton indifference to style. Well fuck me with a
thesaurus huh? Shall I purchase plastic surgery for my tumors? Please,
do enlighten me as to the appropriate definition of beauty since
explanation is the guiding force these days. Lets get downright platonic
with it so as to advance the sales of lubricant.

I consider the non-canonical history of the beast of light colloquially
termed 'Beauty' to be a war; then again what self respecting poet does
not consider every god given refraction of light a war? Chess-like in
its parties, there are only two sects of criminals whose work I burdeon
myself with and those are the crimes of passion versus crimes against
humanity. The first being all artists and the latter the toe-tippers, if
you will, of creation. Both criminals in their own right but only one is
worthy of respect; for the only crime against humanity which has any
lengthy toll in every civilization is the trampling upon the utmost
sacred of humanity's progress. That being what is solely our ability to
recognize and then become the true keepers of beauty, rationing it out
to the philistines for sustination by the bite. Why else do you think
they charge to view the purdy pictures in a gallery? As an staunch
individualist who holds on high the absolute sacrosanct ideology of art,
the only true warmth I have every found in this life is the heat
emanating off forlorn brethren throughout poiesis, that is in its
succinct definition being 'to create,' in the most modern extrapolation
of the written word, the painted canvas, the scorched screen, the
earthen clay made animate, etc, which calls to arms the outlier of the
age the artist suffers through, therein transmuting fleshen holes made
beautiful for consumption by all.

Historically speaking, all enemies proceed us in a chosen dogmatic
style. To every artist a hill to die upon, each school being the
culmination of disgust with their predecessors. A grand theory, for
"parents just don\'t understand." The battlefront of the written word's
efforts have superseded each in a prolonged timely respect a la
attrition warfare spanning back to the first guttural yelp which spurned
our curse of speech. Time is of the essence in this apocalyptic age we
all suffer through and we must not only reclaim floral vehemence but
build new Babel\'s for prose poste-haste. Simpleton entertainment is
abound these days, if you care for supplication by way of easily
digested, motherly masticated art for free vomit to gnash around in
toothless mouths may I recommend internet and much of it.

If I may be permitted a pedestal for fifteen seconds to expound upon in
crude speech the current movement whitewashing literature in the digital
age, let it be known that I have absolutely zero investment in this
world. I am of no party, my livelihood does not depend upon the cruel
universe of the written word. I have dangerously pigeon-holed myself
within an industry already built upon the slave labor of its own
workforce; therein allowing me to speak freely with no recompense as I
have no hope of ever permeating the circle-jerk to save face. The self
serving ephemerality of the massive churning out of diaristic concise
thoughts for the page, easily digestible for the consumers raised by
screens only perpetuates its own homunculus agenda. Quick serotonin for
those too lazy to invest in actual autodidaction, scared off by our
ancient's investment in painterly longevity. Clickbait has wormed its
way beyond the intention of selling an agenda, we now are all
intellectual victims of zero effort. Sparknotes reigns high, language
has become its own ouroboros growing fatter with filth, subsidizing any
weight gained with pseudo waste meant to assuage our hunger. How long do
we have left before the sustenance dries up with its prose, before
simulacra coats the grey matter completely smooth?

Names serve no purpose for targets, to every victim a plethora of
weaponry rife for the picking. Yet in regards to such dereliction of
language as art, let us all wax freely as we see fit to ascribe the
blame as each individual can recognize. How familiar the storyline goes,
everyone seems to be "just following orders," the clear shot trend most
promising to capitulate them to more likes in hopes of a larger audience
of overgrown children. The underlying issue with a carcinoma is that it
spreads feverishly if not doused in its onslaught. We've metastasized
ourselves too late in the game, dereliction promenades itself unchecked,
there is no solution besides reinvestment in a mindset completely
nonexistent today. I offer no solution, same as Virgil, but still, there
must exist a noise to the flushing of the toilet, otherwise how would we
know the waste has entered the larger sewage system we employ. Let us
all step up post-haste and study if we insist on contributing more
garbage to this decaying rock we trounce upon, for there lies within all
coal the potential for mineralistic salvation.
