---
layout: posts
title: Reptile Lover
description: Nonfiction by Unity â€“ Reptile Lover
author: Unity
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... The reptile lover peers out from the eyes of all the meth men I've loved ...
date: 2021-04-13
issue: spring-2021
image: '/assets/img/spring2021_og/unity.jpg'
width: 640
height: 466
---


The reptile lover peers out from the eyes of all the meth men I've
loved. Puff by glass puff he assembles his pieces before me. In Justin I
see the reptile lover's teeth; in Alex the beak that encases them. His
scales chafe my skin when I'm grinding on Spencer. Beneath Jared's bed
is a sloughed-off dead skin. He shows me a grin like a wolf's when he's
Scott. When he's Frank I first see faint impressions of wings. But it's
Chris who will prove the most suitable vessel for the reptile lover's
emergence. Chris in the leather, with the neon pink punk hair. *I have
you,* he tells me, and marks me to prove it, his blood, sweat and piss
intermingling on their journey through the heart of me, through my
cavities and tubes, infecting my being with the reptile lover's queer
rhythms, his satin bowerbird's cackling courtship dance.

*We'll go to our island,* he whispers. *To the beach.*

We spin a cocoon there from syringes and beach glass, and wrapped in its
warmth I prepare to receive him. Above me Chris quivers, cracks open,
releases the reptile lover within. The light that pours out from the
skin sac where Chris was belongs to no spectrum of color I know. The
sound that emerges is likewise a mystery, not music or language but
nearer to static that pierces my brain and inscribes its strange message
with needling precision on the eye of my mind.

*Of course you've forgotten our prior encounters. Such is* *the*
*amnesia your species enjoys. No matter. There's thousands and thousands
of meetings left to come. The lifetimes you've lived and the ones you
have yet to---in each one I find you. I never give up. You've been
promised to me since the age before time: my princess, my lover, my
eternal betrothed. Give into me now, or wait till next lifetime. Go
ahead: keep me waiting, my dark angel bride, for pleasures grow sweeter
the more we postpone them and lovers like I weary not of the waltz.*

I keep a black cat at the foot of my bed now, and a second to prowl the
forest outside. Even still there are times when I feel him around me. I
test out new methods of letting him go. I pray to Ishwara, Chenrezik and
Jesus. Been sober forever, it feels like these days. And on nights when
the reptile lover still visits, I repeat till I almost believe them the
words *I forgive, I forgive,*

*I forgive.*
