---
layout: posts
title: 30 Frogs and 40 Eels
description: Nonfiction by Angela Townsendâ€”30 Frogs and 40 Eels
author: Angela Townsend
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... The eels were forlorn ...
date: 2021-01-02
issue: winter-2024
image: '/assets/img/winter2024_og/angela-townsend.jpg'
width: 640
height: 427
---

The eels were forlorn. Some dastard had deposited them in Queens,
careless for their future. They writhed like fettucine, breathing and
braiding in and out of each other. The real estate market was tight,
with thirty frogs also competing for square footage. It was a lot to ask
of a neighborhood pond.

The email swarmed four states: "Can you re-home our eels?"

We live in a world where people abandon eels, three dozen strong, in the
shadow of the World's Fair globe. But I live in a tidepool where eels
have ambassadors, and no strand comes loose.

I have been paddling towards this place since splashdown. A little girl
loved is a reckless ship of mercy. I wrote essays on alligators and
filibustered for their respect on the monkey bars. I sought street cats
and named them Strudel and Schnitzel. I defended polliwogs from hooligan
boys with sticks. I heard the salamanders' bawdy songs.

We live in a world where music is counted among luxuries, and the strong
command dry land. The wealthy uncle told me not to spend so much time at
church. The guidance counselor read forked rivers in my palms, weepy
watersheds of a "sacrificial vocation." No one understood the
overabundance of cats.

But there is always someone to advocate for the eels. Between semesters,
I found wet rebels with doctorates. Dr. Chapman was aunt-mother to 400
Fijians. Dr. Hawthorne paused Pacific Rim Cosmologies to feed his orphan
squirrel. Dr. Sklaroff wrote op-eds against conflict diamonds and cat
declawing.

Dr. Montgomery had two thousand leeches. The first time I slipped into
his office, I nearly dropped my compassion on the floor. My bleeding
heart dried at the sight of the tanks lining the walls. The office was a
hall of churning commas, long and exceedingly alive.

"Meet the family!" Dr. Montgomery threw his arms like exclamation
points. He had banked his whole song on these swarmers. The world's
preeminent expert on leeches was pleased to have me as his intern.

It was a lot to ask of a sophomore with a pink ribbon in her braid. But
I learned to love the leeches, graceful as harp strings. I learned to
love the leeches because Dr. Montgomery's love was so pungent, my
caution puckered.

I learned that love is a stubborn chord, stronger than sense and wet as
the heart. But music does not belong solely to those who bleed loudly.

We live in a world where wires get crossed and innocents get scorched.
It's a half-lap from empathy to ego. Captains of industry can be more
selfless than streetcorner saviors. We love because we have been loved,
and we love because we want to be loved. We are slippery and greedy,
hiding under plain buttered noodles. Steely or sanctimonious, we splash
and slosh.

No strand comes loose.

With mixed motives and cracked paddles, I found my own Atlantis, a
technicolor city where kindness was queen. The tadpoles wrote coronation
poems the day I entered animal rescue. Fundraising for ferals, scrawling
sonnets for the hardscrabble, I was forlorn no more.

Caution is the first casualty of love, and danger dangles the rip cord
of limits. *Come, now; retain some dignity. There are legitimate
unlovables in this world. When you see them, do a flip turn. Come back
to the surface. Come, now*.

But it was too late. The braid was too tight. I was not coming back. We
live in a world where I am far from alone.

Somewhere in Queens, someone poured forty eels and thirty frogs into a
pond barely larger than a spaghetti pot. Someone else reached out to
animal rescues across four states:

"If your rescue is able to accept these friends, please let us know!"

An hour later: "We've placed the frogs! If you know someone who can
embrace our eels, please let us know."

We live in a world where it is possible to embrace eels. We live in a
world where strong, salty people speak of "our eels."

This world writhes with another, the dry land of dirges and decorum. It
is successful and clean, a good investment unless your portfolio is
alive. The worlds spit at each other like unneutered tomcats, and they
both miss the open secret.

They are entangled. Wriggling or rejoicing, we all come to the creek. We
see the unlovable face reflected in the water and nearly drop our
dignity on the floor.

At that sliming moment, someone calls us "ours." No strand comes loose.
Someone embraces the eels.
