---
layout: posts-no-author
title: Die Closer to Me
description: A review by Matt Lee  – Die Closer to Me
author: Matt Lee
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... In the twenty-first century, there are no flying cars or telepods ...
date: 2021-01-02
issue: winter-2024
reviewer: true
writer: David Kuhnlein
image: '/assets/img/winter2024/die-closer-to-me.jpg'
width: 625
height: 1000
---

In the twenty-first century, there are no flying cars or telepods. We
do, however, have state-sanctioned euthanasia and quadrupedal robots
outfitted with high-caliber machine guns. By today's standards, even the
most sinister of fictitious dystopias seem rather trite. Since the
future can never truly arrive, at least we can keep dreaming of what
fresh hells tomorrow may deliver.

Is science fiction dead? Have we trekked and warred the stars to their
fullest potential? Has the genre been sterilized and infantilized beyond
redemption? Delaney's still alive, so perhaps there's hope. Indeed, a
cadre of scholarly psychonauts have made the case that sci-fi, once
relegated to the gutters of pulp (my personal favorite place to wallow),
deserves capital R Respect.

And so an air of sophistication must be sprayed to combat fandom's
noxious fumes, a rebrand (retcon?) to cast "science fiction" as
"speculative fiction." Doesn't that sound more grown up, more serious?
Let's not confuse spec-fic with its cousins slipstream and
transrealism---a categorical multiverse!

The strangest paradox is that a supposedly forward-thinking genre has
found itself stuck in a loop, regurgitating and eating its past glory, a
robotic snake feasting upon its digital tail. From the sex-shocked,
drugged-out counterculture new wave of the 60s and 70s to the dark
cyberpunk noir of the 80s and 90s, science fiction has always been more
a reflection of the present than a projection of the future. Perhaps our
current state has grown so intolerable that the only suitable balm is
nostalgia (make sci-fi great again!). Is this why we're still aping
*Dune* and imitating *Blade Runner*? We've reached the remake of a
remake stage. We're cloning the simulacrum, and the results are
unexpectedly bland.

Given this vapid landscape, imagine my joy upon reading David Kuhnlein's
*Die Closer to Me*---proof that science fiction still has some blood
left to spill (and Kuhnlein certainly spills plenty). An interwoven
collection of shorts, these stories-as-novella transport us to the
planet Süskind (a nod to the German writer Patrick Süskind, no doubt),
where earth's able-bodied ubermensch send their disabled kin. This
off-world is thus the ultimate eugenical project---not only are those
burdensome cripples out of sight, they're out of this world. As a
disabled writer myself, Kuhnlein's acidic social commentary is not lost
on me.

*Earthlings yapped about how methylenedioxymethamphetamine reduced
symptoms in a third of combat veterans with post-traumatic stress
disorder and eliminated it in the rest, so they stopped selling it.
Opium production, on a steady rise from the 2020s, supplied Bhikkhus on
both planets. With consistently balmy buyers, the Engineer couldn't
imagine his progress slowing until every drop of blood from the disabled
populace was sucked and studied.*

But the denizens of Süskind are not content to simply waste away. They
have built a society all their own, with unspoken rules, morals,
pleasures, and dangers. Kuhnlein is careful to keep his world building
in the background, so the architecture never threatens to overshadow the
narrative. Better still, the narrative is often loose, tangential,
mercurial.

The characters, including a bounty hunter with a superhuman sense of
smell (another reverential literary nod; see Süskind's opus *Perfume*),
a militant monk named after Brendan Fraser, a demented mad scientist
performing body horror experiments that would make Cronenberg blush, and
a host of humanoid hybrids and broken, ailing bodies seeking salvation
in drugs, pop culture, and eastern mysticism (not unlike several of my
friends).

Though there is a plot, it is secondary---this ain't no over-wrought,
expositive space opera. Both humorous and horrific, the stories are sewn
together in devious, obscure ways, as the characters' arcs steadily
orbit one another before unexpectedly (and ingeniously) colliding. What
is on full display in *Die Closer to Me* is Kuhnlein's magnificent
prose, itself a kind of mutant creature, very much alive and assuming
curious forms. Sentences coil and writhe, an extraterrestrial syntax
that never fails to surprise by testing the limits of language
itself---proof that more poets should write hard sci-fi.

*Epileptic sound waves sigilized themselves inside the dogs' brains,
chemically satisfying devotional clutters of nerves, regressing
transmissions through glands and muscles, tickling every hairy synapse.*

Kuhnlein also brings a certain blue-collar quality to Süskind, as we
follow construction workers, waitresses, and other working stiffs who
would seem right at home in the retro-futurism of Ridley Scott's *Alien*
(with its rag-tag space-trucker protagonists). Building on the satirical
send-up of ableism's long shadow, there is a class consciousness at
play. But even the so-called "commoners" on Süskind are more twisted
than they first appear. Take the waitress Olivia who eats tip money, yet
another critique of labor, commodification, and capital (I'll say it
again, science fiction reflects the present).

*People rebranded currency with a value in and of itself. The billfold
was a remnant of palms. Rich people didn't tip, because they were too
close to the top to stop. They wouldn't be shaken awake before the wet
dream was over.*

A weird, wild, hallucinatory ride that demands re-reading, *Die Closer
to Me* is the most exciting work of futurism I've read in years. With
linguistic gymnastics and limitless imagination, Kuhnlein has written a
modern sci-fi classic that stands alongside the best of PKD's most
whacked out schizo-odysseys. I heard a rumor there is a follow-up in the
works, and I will gladly commune with Kuhnlein at his next literary
event horizon, headlong into whatever black hole awaits.

<figure class="mb-4 py-4">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/seperator.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="mx-auto d-block" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

[*Die Closer to Me* is available from Marigold
Independent.](https://www.merigoldindependent.com/davidkuhnlein)

<img src="{{ '/assets/img/winter2024/die-closer-to-me.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="img-fluid mx-auto my-4 d-block" alt="Book Cover"/>

