---
layout: posts
title: Light Angels
description: A short story by Samuel Liuâ€”Light Angels
author: Samuel Liu
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... On certain afternoons, rooms prey to too much loneliness will turn into real hotspots for angels ...
date: 2021-01-03
issue: winter-2024
image: '/assets/img/winter2024_og/samuel-liu.jpg'
width: 640
height: 422
---

On certain afternoons, rooms prey to too much loneliness will turn into
real hotspots for angels, in the peculiar, otherworld highway that so
often diverges into our own.

Well-springs of angels frequently arise in hot, golden fields, of waving
wheat, foaming with white crocus; the tossing of dandelions, air-borne
whirligigs into the air, has the byproduct of unleashing a summer's
worth of angels.

We are of course familiar with the angels so often depicted by Fra
Angelico, in Catholic orthodoxy, but we are perhaps much less familiar
with those angels which are, in truth, but mere functions of the light,
light-seeds, light-needles, light-flies, all the sundry, wonderful
assortment of epic phenomena you may see reflected on water.

It is the apex of my career to have witnessed and documented the true
ecosystem of these lesser-known angels, what I call the varieties of
light. First and foremost in my study I must thank my father Abraham
Schmelke, who first pointed out to me that, from the image of water on
light, from this alone, one may derive the incalculable assortment of
light-functions that compose this whole, miraculous mobile system. Some
--- I shake to say it---still insist that angels walk and talk, that
they do such things as kill or rapture, or take away, and few have come
to the proper understanding of angels as the derivatives of the
principles of light on water: I am astonished that I need not merely
point out, for example, the upjumping droplet of water (when a droplet
has fallen into the river) as an example of a light function, an angel
hesitating and springing about in the air for a micro-second; and I am
astonished, furthermore, that some people simply cannot come around to
this way of viewing things, when, of all matters in the universe,
nothing is more pressing than to figure out the constituent parts of the
reflection of light on water!

What can be more astonishing than light on water? What can be more
prophetic? I simply mean the essence, the most basic, and boring version
of water on light, and do no need to specify further.

And yet, most infuriatingly, those angels whose existence I denied,
those walkers, talkers, breathers, the Biblical angels, have been most
ridiculously impugning my existence with their own existence, have been
shaking my strongest denials, working against me...

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>


This afternoon, with my wife gone to work, I have been prey to the most
subtle and pernicious kind of loneliness. In this loneliness my own
voice arises, my interest in work decreases, my ability to calculate and
think are all gone...

With enormous regret, I draw the curtains, no longer able to study the
various light phenomena of the day.

And I try to sleep; to no avail, despite the shadows of the room.
Whether it's the neighbor's cat, who likes to creep and vanish along the
gutter under my windowsill, or the yellow face of my house, built with
horizontal boards, whose lightweight armor the sunshine heats up, I
simply cannot seem to get any peace of mind, any freedom from my doubts.
It cannot be that there are real things called angels; what I know to be
angels are merely the matter of light, the things that make up light,
its reflections, its shards, its glasses, and its broken glass, its
effects, its strange absorbance in a wet rag, its dirty rainbows. I
*know* that I alone have documented any kinds of angels, and when I say
that they "arise" in hot fields, I really do mean of a *kind* of angel,
of the kind that we *see-as*, dandelions as angels, wheat-spires, the
waving brilliance of sunset clouds. I do *not* mean that angels walk or
talk; I mean, simply, that angels arise out of different arrangements of
light. First is the mystery of light; then, angels explain them. First
is our mesmerization by light; second, our so-called experience of
angels. I argue in my rather eccentric study for the primacy of light,
and the secondary, merely tangential after-effect of angels. So *what*
if angels might be more literary, and might have greater legacy and
literature than functions of light? I am concerned with truth, and I
believe that truth sets us free, not lies!

And yet a kind of "unreal" feeling has come over me... I am really not
well. I pass a wet rag over my sweaty face.

There is no decent way to say this. A field of light on water has come
to rest alongside my house.

I am on the third floor, so a flood is not outside the bounds of
reality. Yet there could not be a flood; unless, that is, one accounts
for the light raining down all morning. I should mention something in
case someone reads my case study and wants a better understanding of my
demise:

Just a few days ago, I went with my wife down to the city towards the
South. We went to a pond to look at turtles. There, we walked in boredom
for sometime, hardly speaking to each other, until we stopped under a
tree whose branches so richly grew that, overhanging the pond, the top
half of branches had grown directly into the pond, quasi-roots; trailing
the spine of the branches evenly and at intervals thrusting out with
lesser branches, the armor of green, tender leaves followed and thrust
into the pond as well, thus forming a canopy, a little perfect cave, of
slightly illuminated, mosaic-stone leaves. I stood there, completely
enraptured by the light upon the pond-water. The water was motionless,
thick, and in fact almost brown, with a layer of scum. Upon it, thanks
to that translucent film of scum, like pale, unskimmed fat, the shadows
of the leaves were distinct, in patterns as though printed upon a card.
I stared, not at all conscious of how much light I was allowing into my
system. I had not understood the possibility of the light of scum
angels, of translucent ponds; of light, blurping suddenly with fish
turning airward to catch flies...

But after that, I had a migraine, and have since been living almost
completely in the dark. My wife hates this, but I do not allow any light
to be turned on at evening; I move through the hallways of my house
aware of every object; except, that is, when I need to find something.

But since then I have been afraid of too much light.

Vicious, overpowering, headache-giving, leaf-giving, violent light, that
overgrows my ears, out of which delicate tendrils madly sprout straight
lines and curling wires!

Light on its own is a pure substance, a space without definition,
without color; and yet so often light wants to be reflected on walls
(like in my room, through the curtain the wind kicks open), wants to
grow up in soil in little, squiggly worms, wants even to appear in
people, as a sly glance; wants even to be corrupted by becoming smooth,
shining, lustful, oil-rubbed skin! Light simply can't stay where it is,
can't be whole, and remain in heaven. My father died that day when I
admitted to him that I realized... that I thought... that light on water
was not the only form of light. That there were other forms of light
worth studying---of course I have not studied them! to do so with
would be to spit on my father's grave! And yet when I went to his grave,
be honest, young Schmelke, did not the tendrils of the weeds lightly
catch the light; didn't the delicate rosenberries become illuminated,
beneath the dark skins, revealing the eclipse of the pit? Don't stripped
peaches show a flesh slightly indented, yet mildly radiant, like an old
angel, his power lost but still overwhelming? Ah, don't cry, don't blur
your sight: doesn't light in *all* its varieties show up in your dreams?
Yes, your father was right: from light-on-water springs everything else;
it is the one principle upon which the family has turned... I am losing
my mind...

This room of light, flocking angels to my window, these passerby, led by
a holy shepherdess in the sky...

"We're just on our way to where a sweet spot is gathering," one tells
me. "It's nothing to do with you."

"No," I tell him, "You do not munch sweet spots in the sky like cotton
candy. That is only a myth."

I have crawled to my windowsill; the ruffian, the sleepwalking angel,
sits with his back facing me, looking out at the bright, big Maple tree;
now he looks over his shoulder at me, and his round, sweet almond face,
with bright, brown eyes, cannot be anything but real.

"We'll be out of your hair, soon," he says.

"Out of my hair? You are not in my hair in the first place!"

"See? She's getting ready to leave," and he points at the shepherdess
that is guiding this river of angels, on their daily, bored paths. I see
the shepherdess standing in the branches of my big maple tree, higher
than my room on the third floor. A gentle woman, she holds a staff, and
her naked feet cling unevenly, but surely, to the huge, strong branches;
in her brilliance, the snake-like arms of the giant maple tree are made
bare as if by winter; I see, instead, only the outline of a hydra of
snakes, of the bare branches alone silhouetted and radiating outwards in
this overbright apparition; the blue house behind her has a blotch of
light upon it; over and behind all of them, the courtyard in the
distance, where roofs of the nearby houses meet, looks as though a small
set of play-houses, dollhouses, made different under the distortion
field of this magic, traveling shepherdess.

"Oh, wait," he reflects, "no, not yet. That was just her gesturing at
one of us to get off the telephone poll."

"Who are you? Are you the creature spoken of in the Bible? Or are you
truly a light function of water?"

He smiles at me, as though I couldn't possibly understand, or perhaps he
does not understand my question at all. Perhaps he is slow in the head;
he looks down at his lap, on which a little book is spread out, and
turns away from me and goes back to reading, continuing to slowly kick
his feet against the boards of my house. I calm, and settle down, and
try to take mental notes, to read what is in his book; now and then, he
looks up from the book, sighs deeply; strangely, his face of
appreciation for what he has read also causes his eyebrows to arch up
sarcastically.

Surely what he reads he at once appreciates as holy scripture, but in
the same moment causes him to slightly roll his eyes.

Unable to read his book, I touch the faint, delicate white tunic in
which he is clothed; his bare delicious shoulders have a fragrance as of
fresh myrtle; his feet, barely covered in their sandal straps, seem made
for traveling in the air.

"What's this?" he asks me. Then he turns to me and stretches out his
eyes sarcastically, white with extravagant surprise, and puckers his
mouth into a little, sour hole, the face of someone who is trying to
ward off someone else's advances by a look of comedy. The illusion,
however, cannot break; he is like grapes hanging out from a tree branch,
which I must grab, and munch in my mouth; now he tries to jerk free from
me, but I won't have it! This day he has proved to me that angels are
real, and by God, I will have a mouthful of him as reparation. The
curtains billow in my room, the outside lights up my walls, the posters
flap, the opened books turn their pages, read by light, the skeleton of
the words are revealed as dead letters; I reach for him, and off the
wall he slips, down to somewhere I can't see---I'm almost out of the
room when someone grabs me from behind. It's my wife, who's come home
from work just in time to keep me from falling out of the house. I look
outside, again: I see only the tree, on which hangs nothing but some
lost papers and maple seedlings.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>


Brilliant, Light Angels, how truly I wish that you did not exist. How
deeply I wish to go back to my old life, to its simplicity, its relative
ignorance, its lack of this power. My wife, naturally, does not believe
me, in the little I was able to relate to her; and that is for the
better. But now that the power of the light angel has been over me, now
that, it seems, light angels filter through my blood, run in shivers
underneath my skin, brightening my soul, so it seems that soon I shall
run into overbright territory, carried away, raptured not in the
imagination, but by some irrepressible mistake (a doomed landscape
stamped in irreversible gold), some action taken as though light angels
indeed live! And *that*, I now realize, was the crux of my effort to
ground angels in the light of water. Once, I wanted to show that nothing
wondrous occurs in the miraculous, but as effects of light-in-water; yet
now it seems I am caught up in unrealities, my wife at work cannot hold
me back from my room attracting the flocks of angels; and I soon will no
longer be able to say, "No, no, none of you are real!" My soul is now a
battleground, a page between words of light and dark; now brightness is
taking the day, as though the angels had visited a well and expunged the
water and replaced it only with a descending throat of miracle!

You who touch my pages with your sight, be careful, lest you rub your
eyelids and gold paint stain your fingers!

I must proceed with my study carefully. Yet, just yesterday, didn't it
happen that my wife appeared to me like an angel? Can this be denied?

Days used to go by without a single word passing between my wife and I.
I myself don't believe in female angels, certainly not in the
corruptions of light, mixed blood between giants and humans, in female
bodies so alluring that their navels, once seen, are like a question
mark and a demand, are a hint at what curling fire-red hair lies below.

My wife is a simple, cold-hearted woman, with black hair, and wide,
bright eyes, with a simple outlook on life, and an unremarkable
personality: a book-keeper's wife.

But now, I cook meals with so much pepper, with so many summer tomatoes,
and so many clean oils, that my wife's skin has taken on a different
sheen, like a poisonous salamander, like a chameleon perpetually in
between changes of colors. After our meals, in darkness, she bathes for
hours, scrubbing her legs, which she sticks out of the tub in my
direction, dangling a dainty foot. Here I am, sitting in the living
room, on the floor, or in the hallway of my house, looking out at the
balcony, staying within the burning edges and lines of darkness (where
the hallway edges meet the walls), ensconced as within a comforting
shell, the only thing that soothes me these days, that reminds me not of
the light angels, avoiding at all costs the lantern in the neighbor's
house down the street below the eaves, which flashes at me from beneath
my table, avoiding, too, the double-lantern (far away!) which projects
my shadow onto the wall in a strange double-vision. I have even added
that shadow to my study: something I would never have done, to even
begin a study of darkness! I note that my shadow is only slightly
doubled, that a main shadow remains, my body shadow, but that the
penumbral double, caused by the places where the lanterns do not twice
overlap, a hollowed out shadow, encases me as in a lightweight armor
which at any moment I can destroy by simply doubling my arm shadow over
it; it as though my real person were being copied and paginated by the
forces of light, overbright summer, and more and more me's, which I
cannot control, and which are taking over my life, cooking for my wife,
making love to her, making her so happy, all studied the light angels
and their sarcastic and carefree demeanor, their lackadaisical kicking
of my house's walls as they sat on the windowsill, the unrelenting
pursuit of light for something far beyond itself, its discontent with
staying still and its inability to rest!

Soon, I know, light shall burn me out like a candle, and I'll have
nothing to show for it, not even my life.

Even so, how like a crocodile the fumes of lust creep across the burning
body of darkness, the scent of her aroma climbing across the black walls
down the narrowing hallway, whose forever-receding door, of blackness,
like my self trying, by indifference, to flee away from the rising
floodwaters of her desire, how, suddenly, to her bathtub---like a fish
shot out by hook from the sea---I kneel besides her, knees immersed in
her fluids, her fragrance, her soaps, and bury my small face in the
overwhelming cascades of her red, shadowy hair. Most brightly of all
burns the hair of my evening loved wife! She steps out of the bathtub,
completely naked, her skin covered, it seems to me, in silver glimmers
that run like waterfalls, in waves, down the in-bending of her waist,
down the indents of her knees, to her very shins and feet, which are
items of love.

All, I promise you, in complete darkness, yet I can see far more of her
body, ebbing faintly in the Night, than if we had kept the lights on.
Her expansiveness has not altered the slender original blueprint of her
delicious, compact body, and I cling to it, contain it between my arms,
and she violently pushes her head away from mine, throwing a hand into
my face and smushing me as though to get away; ever encircling a greater
area, our nightly transgressions leave the bounds of what's proper and
appropriate, and soon, like a dove leaving forever, may go where no one
returns.

I am afraid, I tell you, of dying from this overbright feeling, from
this unafraid nature in me so discovered!

There must be an end to all this light. I beg you, to end all these
revelations, to end all this overbrightness, to return my boring wife to
me, to return me to normalcy.

It cannot go on. I do not want to live like this.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>


Then, just like that, like something which you need but which you cannot
know about because you don't have it, a certain event ended it all in a
pleasant culmination. I talked to a light angel, and he told me exactly
how it happened, and after that, I no longer believe in light angels.

This is all I heard: in the heat towards the South, in the many
wheat-fields there, where a woman may lay the afternoon hidden in stalks
of corn, heat rises from the wires, and filaments of the golden curls,
of bursting corn fibers, of tides of waving wheat, over which a hand
passed tending its hair like pulses of electricity, so air tickles and
caresses the gathering updraft of moisture until, like an evaporating
funnel, the tiny fireflies, glass mirror shards, lakes light on the
water, give up a little light to the evaporation, till powerful,
boulders of cloud, dark and opaque, move their congested days over to my
town, and rain, not with light or shadow, but clouds, and dripping, with
sopping, and boring rain. Now my days of agitation are at an end. The
Fall season is here. I think no more about light angels, with the heat
relieved. Weeds again grow in sundry cracks on the sidewalks. The
sunflowers, already grown too large, wilt, and children take their heads
away for their personal collection. Looking back on that time, before
the summer rain, I can only say that I am happy it is over and that it
is with me no more. I can derive no permanent meaning from it, and have
expunged all pertinent points from my study, which remains a study of
light-on-water.

I do not believe in any angels made of light. Everything that I
experienced was only the after-effect of viewing for too long the many
functioning parts of glittering-on-water.