---
layout: posts
title: Summit in Decline
description: A short story by Kyle Coma-Thompson—Summit in Decline
author: Kyle Coma-Thompson
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... Rain and no rain, snow and no snow, for centuries, for millennia ...
date: 2021-01-04
issue: winter-2024
image: '/assets/img/winter2024_og/kyle-thompson.jpg'
width: 640
height: 360
---


Rain and no rain, snow and no snow, for centuries, for millennia.
Through the passage of dark and light, planet around its sun, seasons
swelling then streaking down a windowpane, mountains grew. Mountains
without a name, mountains almost foothills. Mountains that owed their
height to the upward push of other mountains. Mountains the subject of
many a legend, mountains bereft of storytellers. Mountains without
access, mountains miles and years from any nearby town. The shifting of
tectonic plates, the demise of warm shallow saltwater seas. Wandering
groups of upright talkers and hunters, a species that wore the skins of
the slain. Of these mountains had no fear, though perhaps reason to
fear; together they could bring down animals much larger than them, but
only if they were mortal, had brains, bones, flesh, fur, heartbeat. A
mountain had none of these, so perhaps was not deemed mortal. Not
mortal, not murderable, hence not edible. A mountain could not be
skinned, deboned. A mountain was not warm-blooded, drinkable. Fresh
mountain springs were cold. A mountain did not have arms, so couldn't
grapple or fight, didn't have legs, so couldn't run. Bears hid within
forests and underbrush around their lower reaches, but bears were mere
visitors, even if born there. Bears were residents of mountains but not
mountains. 

There were many kinds, each peculiar. To a glib eye, they
might pass for instances of a type, these masses of rock and escarpment.
In their many languages the two-legged walkers, the hunters and finders,
the settlers and climbers, described and named them. Maps were made to
mock and contain them. Topographic zoos which measured, depicted in
miniature scales of height and breadth that did not yield easily to
shallow imagination. Campfires were lit, huts and lodges built. Huts and
lodges died off, leaving behind motels and cabins and houses.
Interstates and back roads glistened serenely after summer rains. The
walkers moved among them, became climbers. Mountains became living
trophies to gravity challenged and conquered. Mountains became goals,
end points, fetishes to be collected. Mountains became graveyards for
the unlucky and clumsy. 

Each unaware, each bound to others around it. Each a
unrecorded genealogy of squirrels born and dying among trees, of trees
standing and split asunder by lightning. Sky and earth, clouds mimicking
mountains below: spirits of vapor that morphed and wandered according to
the whims of the high winds. Mountains unconscious and therefore free of
plague: they could not diminish themselves through comparison. A cloud
not even a cloud. A mountain not even a mountain. Others less old, more
fearful, more bound to time and mortality may look up, see mountain,
then look up further, and note cloud, then note the resemblance, then
rate the former less favorably against the latter---a cloud capable of
so much more than what's earthbound and forever south of it. 

Mindless of categorization, genus and species. Unaware of
multitudes bound into the singular: gneiss, limestone, quartz, slate,
granite, chert, diorite, rhyolite, labradorite, gabbro. None
acknowledged as mountains, by mountains, for their business is to embody
and not know. Are there parts? Are there names for those parts?
Mountains move as one, millimeters and centimeters and inches, which as
well they do not acknowledge as expressions of their nature or
sovereignty. They do not move to be aware that they've moved, changing
in order to relieve themselves of sameness. In the eyes of walkers and
climbers, they are fixed; easy to chase; bound to earth; beyond heavy;
impossible to shoulder and carry, except as little stones and keepsakes.
Mountains, unlike such flirts and conquerors, are too dense to be
sensitive. Depression is not a mountain condition, nor anger, curiosity,
or elation. They are without culture. Their people gather for what seems
like eternity but say nothing. The walkers and complainers, bored and
impatient, often cover both ends of the conversation: mountain and
walker, mountain and complainer. 

A future has returned: centuries ago, it had ventured far
ahead. Somewhere, having found nothing it'd gone searching for, it had
doubled back and met the evergreen present mid-way. What news, what
sights? What had time-yet-to-arrive gained from outpacing the sluggish
advance of time-now-passing-then-passed? Nothing that could be told,
conveyed by being lived or lost. It had communed a while among a place
where mountains waited, as they always had, but no thoughts could be
read and no expressions could be examined: chiromancy of stone, no
prophecy; geomancy of soil, no insight gleaned from no pattern. Time fed
itself its own tail and was for a short while sated. Mountains felt no
different, neither full nor empty. They were time's exemplars, perhaps,
potent illustrators of what stood and fell, or perhaps they were time's
most overused cliché. A thing that once died once stated: "While I
sought enlightenment, mountains were not mountains...but once attained,
rivers were rivers and mountains, mountains." Naturally, among mountains
such sentiments have never had much currency. Sentiments and concerns
come and go, stipple the waters of a passing stream like leaves. The eye
that looks down instead of up, notices.  
