---
layout: posts
title: The Hoopoe
description: A short story by Rebecca Gransden â€“ The Hoopoe
author: Rebecca Gransden
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... Two months since I dropped out ...
date: 2021-01-02
issue: winter-2024
image: '/assets/img/winter2024_og/rebecca-gransden.jpg'
width: 640
height: 427
--- 

Dawn

<br>

In a chalet on the marina, tucked into a striated slope of holiday lets
in a messy row, I turn over on a slouchy single mattress and wonder how
to sleep. The tousled grey of a warm clouded sunrise blanks the room.
Old oil paintings fade on the thin walls: tigers with wide eyes, wilted
yellow poppies under moonlight, and sea corals in abstraction. Sweat
collects in the skin rims of my neck and the air is sweet to breathe.

Two months since I dropped out, I barely remember what course I'd
chosen. Instead, I'm here on a gap year I don't plan on returning from.
Open-ended gap in a salty coast down, where I drag my heels around the
dusty roads and drain what's left of the education fund my dad saved
over the duration of my growing years.

In the cramped and dull shower I use a forefinger to trace water drops
down my skin and collect all the missed opportunities of forefingers
that aren't mine.

Wrapped in a towel I head to the chalet's enclosed porch. Someone has
suspended a pink and green knitted dreamcatcher from the canopy that
shelters the front space. I sit beneath it, on the open doorway step.
The chalets on the hill below peek out from among saggy palms and
tubular succulents. Great ornamental grasses punctuate the scene like
dry eruptions, and a pathway made of white shingle tilts down the bank
until disappearing between low perimeter fences.

Beyond the hillside the edge of the ocean rages in blue, kinetic white
sea foam rifts racing to dissolve. I look for surfers, but the water is
empty, lurching to harness the wind.

Dreamily, I defocus my eyes, and wait for warm air to dry my skin. A
movement brings me back, something corner of the eye, near the wall of
the next chalet along. Pointed leaves with thorn tips decorate a narrow
boundary plot. Small feet brush through sandy earth amid the plants, and
eyes sparkle. A hoopoe emerges, hesitant, feathers bright.

It stays for a time, orbits the leaves, pokes around. Then it goes, into
the plants, and I lose track of where it could be.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

Noon

<br>

Midday heat stifles the chalet room. My bedsheets remain twisted, so I
straighten them, before I turn my attention to the room's ancient desk
and its small drawers. I rifle my scant belongings around, fetch out the
two items I still own that remind me of college, and place them in my
shoulder bag.

At the room's window, the sun's power threatens the glass. I place my
right hand up against the pane, willing the glass to break. Outside, up
on a ledge that supports the baked roof of a lower rental, the hoopoe
stands, its feathered peak beleaguered in hot air. I stay at the glass
and refuse to retract my hand, despite the threat of discomfort, the
promise of sunburn. It becomes an exchange with the bird, but the hoopoe
keeps its place and remains so still I contemplate whether it has died
and spontaneously taxidermied on the spot. Its elegant legs rest firm,
its eyes twinkle as it blinks. The life in it interests me like nothing
else I've seen. I raise my hand. The hoopoe drops out of sight. For a
moment I numbly stare at the place in which it stood, now a vacated and
mundane ledge. I wait but intuit it won't return, not today, not in this
heat. Minutes pass that barely register, until I drift away from the
window, through the short way out to the porch area. On the porch I
pause underneath the saggy old knitted charm, and I yank the
dreamcatcher free, cracked wood splinters falling about me.

Down at the shoreline, small boats wiggle in their moorings, the marina
lifeless. The worn wood underfoot creaks, pounded by the sun's glare. I
keep losing my footing, I start imagining what it's like to pass out,
faint as a result of heatstroke, something I've never done. Where the
hoopoe has gone, that's where I'll go.

Across the marina is a long boardwalk, older, with wide and uneven gaps
between planks, and there is a bounce to the wood, its dryness plays my
nerves.

After a time the boardwalk ends by sloping into cream sands loaded with
dark pebbles. Junk has collected like dust balls against a rough strip
of unkempt land that leads to a small stretch of beach. Bent plants
twist upwards, a desperation to their growth. I turn away from the
bushes and head out onto the sands, towards the sea.

Halfway across the expanse, I pause. Two oil drums are placed several
feet apart, blackened by nighttime burnings, ashes turning the cream
sands at their base mucky. I select the drum closest to me and approach.
The sand is hot and sends its heat to me. I retrieve the first of the
items from my bag: a relatively small notebook with a Suedette finish in
coral pink, used as a journal. The spine bends back easily, and the
pages tear quickly away. I scatter them inside the barrel and collect a
few weathered sticks from across the sands, add them to the tattered
pages, before reaching into my bag once more. This time I collect a
battered tarot deck and fan the cards into the drum. I think about
looking at the last card before it spins to meet the others, but I let
it fly without a glance. Lastly, the dreamcatcher is pulled free. It has
an historical scent of mildew about it. I take out a lighter and have
the flame tease its dirty woolen edges. The flame establishes a hold,
and I fling the dreamcatcher into the drum.

Through heat haze I stare at the sea, and the hoopoe rides crests,
becomes multitudes, the birds rushing in synchrony to dive and twirl
through the water.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

Dusk

<br>

Quiet on the marina, low sounds of the gentle push of the water and the
sweet far off chitter of birds settling to roost. I sit on wood, watch
tethered boats bob in grey light. Freckles decorate my arms, something
that reminds me of years ago, a younger self. I don't go out into the
sun as I used to back then. There are serpentine light reflections
coming and going on the surface of the sea.

Up the marina steps and follow the coast path along dry brinks. Cars
pass, the drivers lit from inside, their eyes on the road, on their
face, music trapped in the frame, using pressure.

Drop lights above tunnel entrances. Soothes underneath the mountains in
blue. Road markings rub, to walk the white. The hoopoes lie in bodies
near to death and are raised with freckled hands to chests heaving.
