---
layout: posts
title: A Pit
description: A short story by Grant Maierhofer â€“ A Pit
author: Grant Maierhofer
tags: [fiction]
excerpt:  It made me anxious, deep down in my guts it made me anxious. It was a terrible feeling that I couldn't shake....
date: 2019-06-05
issue: spring-2020
image: '/assets/img/spring2020_og/a_pit.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---


It took hours after we were arrested before I fully understood what I
had done. I was sitting in a cold room, a dark space underneath city
hall where each of us were scattered on dingy leather couches mumbling
to ourselves or drinking small Styrofoam cups of coffee or being talked
to by the arresting officers. It wasn't clear to any of us what exactly
was happening. Were we being charged with anything? Would we be allowed
to communicate with one another? Would any of us be allowed to
communicate with the outside world? All of these things were unclear and
what's more if we fidgeted wrongly, raised a voice, or whispered across
the room to one of our fellows to attempt to figure things out, we were
quickly scolded, disciplined, harassed, and occasionally dragged into
another room until we understood what we were not to do well enough to
be brought back out to this dark space where the couches sat facing one
another and there was no substantial source of light and the questioning
officers entered and exited as they liked, putting something together by
communicating one by one with each of us. I convinced myself that
something could be done and tried to make my mind up about what I could
do for each of them to communicate to get something out. We waited there
panicking and I grew tired of it and they grew tired of it and none of
it made any sense anyway because each of us were drawn there under
apparently false pretenses forced into this place no warrant apparently
no questions apparently no reading of rights or discussing anything
apparently and I felt a hanging nail on the thumb of my right hand and
found myself contented to occupy myself with this for a bit. I didn't
bite it. I thought very hard and moved it slowly against the other
fingers of that hand and found some peace. I pulled at the nail and it
drew blood and this became so satisfying that I wasn't worried overly
worried about the room where I found myself and as I remembered and
became determined to work again to find some means of communicating the
blood was just so soothing that I sucked on the thumb and looked around
and it looked like each of them the men I'd come in with were all
sucking at their fingers too and the room was split in various
directions and each of them seemed to breathe out a satisfied sigh as
the situation cemented itself and we were there again and left there
again and in came another one of them a brute the brute and made his way
to someone two spots over from me and asked him quiet questions and
pointed at things on a piece of paper he'd brought in with him in a slim
file and gestured emphatically at the thing and the one who sat there
sort of wept and mumbled to himself that he didn't entirely understand
or something I couldn't hear or make it out I just let him talk. The
sense that the room was whirling and our places in it brought no comfort
and I sat there chewing a bit on my Styrofoam cup and poured a bit more
coffee when I got a chance. It made me anxious, deep down in my guts it
made me anxious. It was a terrible feeling that I couldn't shake. I
looked and saw the faces of the men who'd been dragged in with me and
felt nausea at our being revealed to the world this way, pulled out
covered in dirt and sick and disgusting as we were. I heard more
mumbling and I contributed to the mumbling. I saw low light from
somewhere and felt myself retching up in the reality of the situation.
Nobody knew what they did. Everybody knew all they did. A circle of
tyrants and rapists and the sick and the vile and we'd been under there
for however long and hadn't seen much light and we'd been whipped and
taken into halls and made to vomit on the floor and speak and talk out
in glossolalic screams covering walls in sick and mourning. I didn't
remember. I wasn't guilty. I wasn't awake and I could see. I drank the
coffee and felt my anxiety bubbling up and saw the faces of these men
and this whirl of hell and a grayness over all of it as we were pulled
from the dirty corpse of the home and our hands mangled and infected and
all of us infected all of us having torn away at the foundation of the
place and singing in mumble at the world.

"Some of them had bugs burrowed into the skin of their scalps."

Somebody official said it in an open door of the place and left and
again the circle began and took shape and we were asked and none of us
could say a thing worthwhile to make it go away in a sense and give them
something to hold onto to weep and open up the world and feel at peace,
at ease.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

"There were several hundred bodies in the room. The children went first
to drink and after that it didn't take much for the rest of them to
follow. Each of them were wearing robes covered in dirt and sick and
blood. Each of them had fingernails yanked back to the extents of their
fingers. We haven't got a name for hardly any of them."
