---
layout: posts
title: Imaginary Museums
description: Imaginary Museums by Nicolette Polek reviewed by Matt Lee
author: Matt Lee
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... This is a writer who can accomplish hugely imaginative leaps with very little space, minimalist flash firing on all cylinders ...
date: 2020-03-30
issue: spring-2020
reviewer: true
writer: Nicolette Polek
image: '/assets/img/spring2020/imaginary.jpg'
width: 400
height: 600
---

I picked up *Imaginary Museums* by Nicolette Polek. After reading blurbs
by everyone from Brian Evenson to Chelsea Hodson, I decided this was a
book for me. The new collection of short stories is a slim volume, but
don't let its size fool you. This is a deceptively dense, complex, and
rewarding work. Polek manages to pack Borgesian labyrinths into single
paragraphs. This is a writer who can accomplish hugely imaginative leaps
with very little space, minimalist flash firing on all cylinders.

Broken into four subsections, *Imaginary Museums* excels in transforming
the mundane into the surreal. In "Winners," a group of scholars sit
drinking in a sports bar. When someone misremembers that Ezra Pound was
a woman, the conversation turns into a game of one-upmanship, with each
Fellow sharing increasingly outlandish facts, "Ezra Pound also made
vibrators by putting bumblebees in glass jars." Polek, herself a
recipient of the 2019 Rona Jaffe Foundation Writers' Award, is clearly
winking at the absurd world of academia, which is rife with bullshit
despite (or maybe because of) its devotion to the pursuit of knowledge.

This deadpan black humor is consistent throughout the collection, where
domestic miseries are filtered through strange behaviors and bizarre
encounters. In the title story, a recently divorced woman obsesses over
visiting the non-existent Air-Conditioning Museum. In "The Rope
Barrier," a woman attempts to block out her anxieties with a portable
stanchion affixed with green velvet rope. These bleakly comic scenarios
play out like a Todd Solondz screenplay directed by Maya Deren. Unmet
desires and missed connections are the currency of these wonderfully
askew micro fictions.

Other stories swing for more fantastical heights, using dream logic to
propel the characters and their actions. The protagonist of "A House for
Living" is a mathematician who fixates on redesigning a glass
condominium. One morning she wakes up next to a gray lump, "translucent
like a cube of gelatin," which seems to have materialized from her head.
Polek's plainspoken, even-keeled voice adds a sense of disquiet to these
inexplicable anecdotes.

<div class="u-release my-5">
    <div class="container">
    <blockquote class="blockquote">
    <p class="h2">&#8220;What makes each story so evocative is Polek's expert use of imagery and atmosphere.&#8221;</p>
    </blockquote>
</div>
</div>

Polek achieves a compelling temporal displacement in many of the
stories. Often it is unclear where or when events occur. "How to Eat
Well" takes what is perfectly commonplace, a dinner scene, and
transmutes it into a modern fairy tale, where a man's nephew goes
hunting for a 90-lb. rabbit. Likewise, "Owls Fall in Nitra," the tale of
a falconer embroiled in a family feud, has a mythological quality. The
fact that these families are competing over the fate of a Ferrari adds a
modern twist, one of many unusual juxtapositions that gives these pieces
a unique flavor.

What makes each story so evocative is Polek's expert use of imagery and atmosphere. The opening of "Coed Picnic" features lush descriptions that
ping all the senses, "Her thighs are pale like coconuts and the boys
imagine her squashing guavas between them." A few stories employ the
list format, creating rapidfire series of images. "Girls I No Longer
Know" is a collage masquerading as a paragraph, where each sentence
becomes its own story: "The girl who tucked a pearl under her tongue
while she slept. The girl who never slept and became a spiral. The girl
who emptied flower food packets into someone's lotion as revenge."

The six stories comprising the section called "Slovak Stories" nod to
Polek's own heritage. They feel like fables from the old country,
distorted through the lens of an eastern European diaspora transplanted
from its home. Slovakia is a tiny country, but is nevertheless rich with
history, culture, and tradition. In the same way, these short-short
stories contain a wealth of artistry. It's a satisfying collection to
read and revisit, with shimmering prose delivered in a confidently
offbeat voice. Thought provoking, humorous, and deeply human, *Imaginary
Museums* is magic realism done right.

Available from Soft Skull Press
[here](https://softskull.com/dd-product/imaginary-museums/){:target="_blank"}.

<img src="{{ '/assets/img/spring2020/imaginary.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="img-fluid mx-auto my-4 d-block" alt="Sophia Shalmiyev image"/>
