---
layout: posts
title: Surgical Text
description: A short story by Mike Corrao â€“ Surgical Text
author: Mike Corrao
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... Set of oblong ears. One architect denotes these structures as ...
date: 2020-03-19
issue: spring-2020
image: '/assets/img/spring2020_og/surgical_text.jpg'
width: 640
height: 425
---

**ILLIUM---**Set of oblong ears. One architect denotes these structures
as, "suspended rooftops." But I believe that they are porcelain plates.
Where the tendons of the leg are a table. Wall::floor. Something to be
covered / shielded. *What can you hear?* dreamdscape: a series of
interconnected rooms. From a distance, it appears as if the surface is
flat, but in actuality it is covered in microscopic grooves. Corridors
without ceiling or discernable pattern. *What is your trajectory?*
dreamdscape: the ears fold in on themselves and touch. I only hear
myself. Walking the corridors. Taking note of irregularities in the
bone. Cracks and micro-fractures. The root of / onset of calcium
deposits. *This will make the bone stronger.* Later excavations will
reveal the potential of previous collisions. Of meteorites or vacuous
debris.

**SCAR - RIGHT HAND - BACK---**Inevitable injuries occur during the
excavation of certain sites. The mysteries of the text are further
mapped. Researchers take first incision upon the gutter. *What lies at
the center of every book?* Reckless behavior leads to (1) the
destruction of the interior spine. The threaded vertebrae are macerated
and left without evidence. And (2) the hand is rendered cavernous. The
posterior face is dissected / gifted with entrenchments. Carpals surface
through the blood and miscellaneous pink-stuff. *Spines are made to be
severed.* dreamdscape: the opening of the hand reveals previously
unknown / unexplored structures. The carpals arrange the exterior of a
palace. With enigmatic architecture---unrecognized inspirations. *The
aesthetic regime is characterized by its posture. Upright-ness.* The
palace is again hidden when the entrenchment is sealed shut.

**INGROWN TOE - RIGHT FOOT---**The autonomy of the foot---the
independent movement of each branch \[interior: metatarsals,
phalanges\]---allows for vast asymmetry in efficiency and configuration.
Invasive proteins, primarily keratin, begin burrowing into the flesh of
the large toe. The slow formation of a parasitic wall. *Topology of a
phantom limb.* dreamdscape: the ingrown toe interrupts previously
conceived construction projects. Architectural styles fuse together into
a collaged assemblage. Its parts derived from starkly contrasting points
of origin. *These pillars are ionic. 200 feet away, on the Southern
facade, they are doric.* dreamdscape: keratin is a sentient biotic---a
primordial symbiote (ex: organelle). It antagonizes the nervous system
and prods the soft tissue of its prey. The pain threshold expands and
the flesh splits. Beneath is a series of wires. Each transporting
viscous fluids. The broken housing leaks fuel onto the exterior plane.

**SUTURED ULNA---**Restorative efforts render the mechanism temporarily
non-functional. Scaffolding immobilizes connected joints and the muscle
is given time to rest / deteriorate. The damage has occurred due to an
impact (unknown origin). Catalyzing the unsewing of the bone and the
generation of new structural proteins. *There will be a suturing between
interior objects.* dreamdscape: someone says something about hive-minded
layouts and apiary orientation. But the conversation quickly dies off.
It is seemingly not applicable to the circumstances at hand. The
restorative process is slow and tedious. Details must be documented and
archived. It cannot be done haphazardly. One architect brings up the
idea of using this opportunity to implement new techniques. *High impact
collision and disintegration.* dreamdscape: tape-static hums under the
awnings of the scaffold echochamber. It fluctuates, seemingly in search
of an unjammed signal.

**SUTURED RADIUS---**But the body is organized first into couplets. The
ulna hugs the radius. When one is broken, the other has likely sustained
some level of damage as well. In the circumstances of *high impact
collision and disintegration,* both shatter. The tubular structure
expands---becoming two smaller, bulkier structures. Restorative efforts
are not initiated. Often restoration is an attempt to undo temporality.
To take what is present and return it to the past---to render it a
facsimile, a monument of nostalgia. *We embrace the monolith of the
teleological.* dreamdscape: the bone-matter is a thick wall. The marrow
is a gelatinous medium. It is made to be navigated (swam through). It's
sibling structure inches backwards in time. But *it* does not do the
same. Instead engendering the slow crawl towards an unknown finality.

**CANINE ANOMALY---**Borgesian structures might be categorized as a kind
of infinite textile of procedurally generated interiors. The library of
babel---hexagonal rooms connected vertically and horizontally. Here, the
mouth is arranged as a row of short compounds. Ranging from bright white
to pale yellows. Certain materials have begun rotting from the inside
out, translucent in the light. Sensitive to changes in climate. Others
have become subject to new design, gaining unexpected or unintended
entrances. *A field of anuses. A pack of wolves.* dreamdscape: some
force (which could be construed as malicious) attempts to convert each
compound into a root-structure. With enigmatically organized pathways
and no nodal point. No central room from which these routes can be
traced back to. They instead appear as external pressure. The evidence
of previous spelunking. *Babbling wind vane.* Two housings on the upper
ridge appear smaller than the neighboring---fully matured---compounds.
*Pyramidal altars.* dreamdscape: the wind circumnavigates the softened
exterior. The walls wear and the pyramid becomes a cone. The cone
sharpens and sinks into the flesh of the gums. It creates new sources of
fluid and air. New entrances by which we access the coveted interior.

**SCAR - LEFT BROW---**The integumentary system is subject to a cycle of
constant recycling. Materials are constructed, disturbed, and
redistributed. The autonomous zones of the cranial anterior. Above the
optic slits, there is evidence of previous iterations. *The glabella is
a cliff-face. The scar is a cavern.* dreamdscape: generations of
symbiotes have witnessed the changes in this surface. Silhouettes
operating in bug time. This place is a desert. It is a landscape of
procedurally generated dunes. Determined by some discrete algorithm. The
post-cavernous surface is dark and cross-stitched. Its texture differs
from the surrounding mass. When the integumentary undergoes its next
recycling, the cross-stitch inverts. *One set aligns with the grain of
the flesh. The other runs perpendicular. Down the face and neck.*
dreamdscape: optic nerve vibrates under the weight of the brow. Thudding
drum. Chanting rhino-programed echo.

**INTERCOSTAL---**Twenty-four interconnected hallways. They spawn from
one central corridor and are insulated by fibrous material. Sudden
changes in the breathing pattern create tension and soreness. *They is a
fragile thing.* dreamdscape: the hallways each lead to identical rooms
containing white drywall and pink tile floors. The furniture is sparse
and asymmetrical, often only a couch or a chair. In more decadent
settings, a wooden coffee table. Their placement appears deliberate but
the logic is difficult to decipher. *I am an algorithmic body.*
dreamdscape: the potential arises for twenty-four more hallways and
twenty-four more rooms. What is constructed is constructed in
set-amounts. Another ribcage can spawn, but with the condition that it
spawn in its entirety. The intercostals---the insulation---holding it in
place. Allowing it to flex without self-destruction or the slow process
of deterioration setting before its time.
