---
layout: posts
title: Night on Sefton Avenue
description: Two nonfiction pieces by Michael Downs
author: Michael Downs
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... All night, the house's basement bulbs burn, windows at ground level shining.  ...
date: 2020-08-07
issue: fall-2021
image: '/assets/img/fall2021_og/downs.jpg'
width: 800
height: 533
---

## Visitations

Halloween and its shivers. An old van's coughing engine, its door
rasping open, metal-on-metal. Then, children's piercing voices as they
leap out to a Sefton Avenue sidewalk, here to join the rumpus.
Spider-Man. A ninja princess. An older boy with no costume, gripping a
pillow case for the loot.

Sylvia hands out bite-sized candies and orange and black plastic rings,
this one with a spider, that one with a bat. Across the street, Joyce
coos over costumes. Bert, from his porch lit orange, shouts to her.
"Hey, Joyce!"

"Hey, Bert!" she yells back.

On his porch, Michael sits in a rocking chair, stock-still. For this,
his first Baltimore Halloween, he's dressed himself in black shoes and
pants, black jacket, black hood up and with a skull mask he borrowed
from Joyce to conceal his face. He has wired his arms, legs, and
torsoÂ with tiny white holiday lights, plugged in via extension cord, so
at first glance he looks like an elaborate decoration, all darkness and
fairy light and plastic-bone. Yet each time children approach, he begins
a slow rock...rock...rock, then raises a hand or turns his head or
arises from the chair. The children shriek! Subtle mischief thrills
most.

As Michael, too, is thrilled by this subtle creature just appeared.
Facing him on the brick rail of the porch. Crawled out of the night, big
as a ragdoll but ghostly white, with a rat's pink tail and a tiny pink
snout, its teeth like thorns, its feet like your hands, almost human,
pale and grasping. Primeval. Imp of the woods, conjured from wildness
more ancient than these houses and pothole-patched streets, from the
dank forest that once thrived here. Its streams. Its fallen trees and
bickering black birds. A woodland so present in this possum, it might as
well be growing here this very night, vines and leafy bushes overrunning
Michael's porch.

Through the eye-slits of Michael's skull mask, the possum blurs, a white
fuzz, a strange uncertainty. It steps oh-so-slowly along the railing,
drawing near. Michael knows the possum is no fake, no Halloween
decoration bought at the Rite-Aid. He imagines its teeth at his ankles,
terrible and gnashing.

He had not known that wild things still roam this city block. But one
morning to come he will watch three raccoons crawl into the sewers
through a grate. One night he will wake to foxes screaming their lust
from under a parked car. Another evening, near dusk, a heron will glide
above the back deck not more than twenty feet overhead, elegant and
prehistoric.

But now, in this moment: a possum, asserting itself on the porch as if
it belongs. For a moment, Michael feels himself the trespasser. But he
can't have mermaids and pirates visit while a sharp-toothed creature
perches on his railing. So he moves---slowly---rising from the chair.
The possum halts. Then Michael blinks and in near-blind panic yanks away
his mask, but the possum is gone from sight, disappeared, into the night
of its very own lair.

<figure class="my-5 py-3">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/seperator.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

## Turtle

All night, the house's basement bulbs burn, windows at ground level
shining. Fran, who loves all creatures great and small, thinks it wrong
to leave the turtle in the dark. In her basement, it crawls over sand
and pebbles in its terrarium, a shelter around the one the turtle
carries. Fran tempts the turtle from its shell with morsels of raw
ground beef.

She has cared for this animal over the decades since she was a girl,
beginning when her parents owned this very house. Since her parents died
and Fran moved back to Sefton Avenue, the basement light has shone every
night.

Neighbors believe her when she tells them about the turtle, though Fran
never shows it to anyone. They know the turtle only by its light.

They believe her, too, when she says that before the house belonged to
her parents, a man had hanged himself in that basement. Sufficient
tragedy, but worse, he'd first taken a broken bottle to his wife's
throat, left her body in the kitchen. Who found them? Who knew? A child,
perhaps. Not long after, Fran's father and mother bought the house.

For neighbors who've heard the story, to think too much about that
basement is also to think about those ruined necks, one gashed, the
other stretched. The kitchen and blood. The basement's concrete floor
and toes not quite touching.

Fran never leaves the turtle without a light. But last night, the
basement windows went dark. Today, neighbors offer condolences.
