---
layout: posts
title: Tom & The Talking Chocolate Bar
description: A short story by David Leo Rice â€“ Tom & The Talking Chocolate Bar
author: David Leo Rice
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... a voice from more than two decades earlier began to speak ...
date: 2021-10-05
issue: fall-2021
image: '/assets/img/fall2021_og/rice.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---

**I** was approaching the proverbial *mezzo cammin di nostra
vita*---assuming I wouldn't make it much past sixty, which I know I
wasn't alone in assuming about me back then---when a voice from two
decades earlier began to speak, activating a latent node in the network
that I had, so far, gotten away with bundling under the inadequate yet
reassuring rubric of *my mind*. There was a part of me, perhaps the part
responsible for whatever modest success I'd recently enjoyed, that was
determined to believe it'd begun speaking for the first time just then,
invading the otherwise sacrosanct mental autonomy that had served me
well enough throughout what some mostly-British tabloids had taken to
calling my *early career*, but another part---the part that, if I had to
choose, I would choose to side with, if this particular "I" refers to
anyone special, despite the likelihood that this same part yearns more
than anything to see me ruined---insisted that my (or its) memories of
having heard this voice before were genuine. That this really was the
return of the repressed, exactly as advertised on the wrapper.

So when I say I---though I'm already losing track of the *I*'s here,
even earlier than I'd feared I---or *it*---might have, but honestly what
did I expect?---heard this voice from two decades deeper into the past
than the vantage I'm looking back on these events from now---still
boarded up in the same room off Ventura that I rented, as an initial
matter, only until such time as I succeeded in making the decision that,
I suppose (there's no avoiding the eventual default to an *I* that can't
help but obscure whatever person it'd been deployed to denote, so we
might as well resign ourselves to this here), I still haven't fully
made---what I mean is that I walked across the parking lot of the
Holiday Inn I was staying at, before I moved into this room on Ventura,
to get a soft drink and a chocolate bar at the 7-Eleven behind the gas
station, one of the innumerable liquor-selling establishments that, in
those comparatively innocent days, I was attempting to cease buying
liquor at, and, just like the drunk I'd begun to fear I might otherwise
become, I heard the chocolate bar begin to speak, its voice every bit as
grave and deliberate as it had been when I was eleven.

The memory felt both authentic and crudely foisted at the same time, if
there's any salience to that expression, like a folder on a desktop with
a clearly marked title but nothing inside. "Look, Tom... it's me, Tom,"
the chocolate bar insisted, first once, and then a second and even a
third time, as I stood there, looking side to side, wondering which Tom
was which as I grew self-conscious, like I was already well into
committing the first in the string of atrocities that would come to
define my tenure in this town far more than the middling studio fare I'd
so far had a tentative hand in producing ever could have, no matter how
much I let myself drunkenly dream.

In fairness, I was already, even before the bar began to speak,
beginning to fear something along these lines about myself, aware of the
nascent or ever so slightly more than nascent possibility that something
was turning strange about me, curdling the slick, marketable
pseudo-strangeness I'd tried to steer myself toward in my twenties, when
the first small nibbles on my baited line had begun to convince me,
insofar as I could feign someone credulous, that they might be more than
strictly nibbles. Now, speeding through my fourth decade with a few
modest hits to my name---even if, in the final accounting, that name was
always one of several, separated by more than one ampersand---and a big
unanswered question up ahead, I was finding myself in more and more
situations where, as now, I gave myself pause. Or maybe this was the
first time, God knows, but it was heavy enough to scream *last straw*!
on its own.

Maybe, I must've thought, when it comes right down to it, you only get
one. Straw, that is. If you're lucky. The years out here, even in the
best of cases, do this or something like it to almost everyone, I told
myself, doubting its veracity---I think I must have a knack for
ascribing my own opaquest musings to everyone in the industry, if only
to feel a little less alone with them, but don't we all?---even before I
completed the thought.

In any event, to come back down to Earth before that damn thing calls my
name again, I was beginning to suspect that much of what I thought I'd
been doing all these years was actually closer to the opposite, undoing
the self I'd been born with, in servitude to forces altogether
antithetical to whoever I thought I was, or thought I'd been called here
to become, having succeeded, where so many fail, in touching down upon a
stretch of open highway with my name chalked along the median, however
hazy the penmanship, if you see where I'm going with this. I mean, all
modesty aside, one of the pictures I'd written, or been known in private
to have helped write, was *big*. Not huge, you could reasonably say,
from the increasingly total perspective of the global marketplace, but
big enough that a few people, if they were all in this 7-Eleven together
and still somewhat sober, would know who I was if I told them.

And yet, as the old saying goes, *who would it be that they recognized
when they recognized my name*?

This is what I'd put in my pipe to smoke when the chocolate bar
repeated, for what must by then have been the fifth or sixth time, "Get
ahold of yourself, Tom... it's me, Tom," and in that moment I honestly
didn't know whether the name referred to me or him. I realize how it
sounds, to claim to be uncertain whether one's own name is Tom,
especially given that mine has now been introduced as coming with some
clout lashed around it, some conceivable pull on the dreamscapes of
those now sidling deeper into the cereal and battery aisles, torn
between watching and appearing not to watch me here as my struggle with
the candy rack intensifies, and I know this admission as to my relative
state tonight on Ventura may cloud anything I'm about to say---"Quit
while you're ahead, Tom!" I imagine the chocolate bar shouting, "for
both of our sakes!"---but I also know it's the truth, and, given how few
truths I'm certain I know at this point, and how many fewer I'm inclined
to share, it's not one I can or want to refrain from mentioning.

So, at this point, I nod, and, at long last, acknowledge that I can
indeed hear the chocolate bar calling my, or its, name. I'm being
facetious, of course, by pretending not to be certain if my Christian
name is Tom, but if the bar insists it's *his* name too---his voice is
definitely male, a real throwback Gary Cooper type, rank and sweaty in a
tank-top straight off the Tennessee Williams remainder rack---I'm not
going to argue, nor will I feel at ease with the notion that we're in
any sense the same, this chocolate bar and I, despite what our mother or
mothers may have named us back in Bakersfield in the 80s.

Cutting to a certain kind of chase here, I observe me taking the bar off
the shelf and smothering it under my T-shirt, just enough, I hope, to
hush it up without burying it all the way, for fear of looking like I'm
trying to steal what I ought, if I am who I say I am, be more than able
to buy. Still, I take it like this, half-hobbling, like a
thirteen-year-old trying to fold his newish liability up inside his
oldish sweatsuit, my giddiness split between trying to accelerate and
trying to halt my progress toward the inevitable next scene---me alone
with Tom in my room, which will, I can already tell, begin to seem to
have been rented solely for the purpose of having whatever conversation
we will then have to have in the \$115-solitude that awaits us---until
the teenager at the counter is forced to decouple from whatever softcore
blues and pinks she'd been tracking on her tablet, ring us up, and let
us go, with hardly a word of warning or wink of advice, nor, certainly,
any attempt to wish us luck.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

**I** carry the bar like so across the parking lot, repeating the phrase
*a life of crime, a life of crime... a talking chocolate bar career, a
talking chocolate bar career* until I make it back to the Holiday Inn,
up an external staircase that allows one to circumvent the lobby and any
moderating influence that contact with another live soul might've even
now exerted. Inside, I turn on the A/C and put the bar in the fridge,
thinking it prudent for us both to chill until we get our bearings and
emerge at the negotiating table with our best selves and offers intact.

As I sit on the off-white bedspread and wait for such time to arrive, I
rough out a hasty premise for the scene, as if it weren't yet too late
to convince myself that I'm here under promising auspices, fresh in from
Bakersfield with a shrink-wrapped screenplay that no sane brokerage
would hesitate to shepherd across the widest desk in town.

They're all waiting to hear it, I tell myself, thinking back to the
long, hot years in the dust, sourcing the very story I've come tonight
to unhand. More money than I'll otherwise clam together in a lifetime,
but... what? What's stopping you, Tom? Gangrene, the slow crinkling of
over-clean skin in the dim inner recesses of a castle in the Hills,
bleeding out in a tub of lotion? I nod and look up at the still blades
of the ceiling fan. Save me from my dim castle, I plead, from the lotion
years of groping behind too-dark glasses among my trophy automobiles and
the pool in which three wives in a row have drowned because something
keeps bubbling me alone back to the surface, compelling one of me to
live long after something else has killed the other. Sure, I think. I
can see it now. Supine beneath a bulletproof blanket in a suite in North
Vegas, fifteen snipers trained on my window, subsisting on room service
omelets and sweaty green bottles of honeymoon champagne. Yessir, that
makes good sense. A good reason to pause here and get ahold of yourself
before---

"Okay," the voice groans from the fridge. "I'm ready, Tom. I can tell
you are too. Get yourself back in hand. See if you have it in you."

Okay.

Resolved, suddenly, to *reach my decision* *by midnight*---my old
so-called *flair for the dramatic* never abandons me in a pinch---I open
the weighted door, remove the chocolate bar, and place it on a wadded-up
pad of toilet paper on the counter beside the TV, where old men done up
in Bill Clinton freak masks auction off a tableful of gold teeth and
earwigs in bubbly amber. The screen's black shadow blankets the bar's
yellow wrapper, and it occurs to me that I rented this room before
encountering the bar, and yet, now, the only reason I can think of for
doing this---it's not like the oceanfront triplex in Malibu I bought on
an inside tip instead of charging commission on a last-minute punch-up
isn't among the nicer properties my peer group can lay claim to,
especially in this seller's market, with interest rates being what
they---but\... "He rented the room anyway," I hear the prosecution
declare, in a future that I'm starting to wonder if there's still any
way to avert.

"Want me to peel back your wrapper so you can---"

"Just listen," the bar growls, its voice again reminding me of what I
can only assume Tennessee Williams imagined as he succumbed to the gas
before one root canal too many, a little too deep into the long and
checkered backstage life I've provided for him, in the very shadiest
reaches of whatever's beyond Key West. "You know who I am. I know who
you are. Or were. What I want to know is what you've become. In short:
what the hell, Tom? Is this what we agreed to when you were eleven?"

I look around the room, mugging for the camera, hoping to discover a
third Tom so I can kick back and watch this particular wave break over
his head and not mine. But it's just me and Tom, one of us whoever I am,
the other a chocolate bar. If there's anyone directing the scene, he's
doing it from a safe distance, laparoscopically for all I know.

"You knew this day would come," he continues. "You can act like you
forgot, but things are what they are. You were eleven when we met, and
from that day on---I have to assume that, deep down, you remember
rifling among the Sobes in that 7-Eleven out on North King Leopold,
convinced you could conjure a Red Tea among all that Oolong when, from
stage right, you heard this same voice"---I jump now, my spine slipping
its wrapper, certain the voice is coming from stage right again, ringing
off those slick bottles of tricked-out iced tea---"and it told you the
first *Tom & The Talking Chocolate Bar* story, which, don't tell me
you've forgotten, went a little something like..."

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

**I** settle back on the bedspread and let the story have its way with
half my mind, trying only to save the other half for later. *A talking
chocolate bar career, a talking chocolate bar career* I think, already
unable to say which half I'm thinking this in. Some part of me again
senses a third presence, but I know better than to go looking for it
now.

"You sent me around the world, Tom," he says. "Throughout fifth grade
and into sixth, those long Bakersfield years of the living dead, our
groaning endless quest to lurch to life... you used me like a battering
ram to open the territory you needed to reach to end up here. I told you
the stories and you wrote them down. *Tom & The Talking Chocolate Bar,*
the epic, undying saga, you and me, or him and it... either way, you
know what I mean*.* You drew the map by pushing me along it, smearing
chocolate across the unlabeled grid which, for the lucky few, resolves
into a world of yacht parties and black-tie premieres on a platform
above a pit of skinned and bloodless larva. Without me, there'd be no
such platform, Tom. Only the pit. Bakersfield and Bakersfield and
Bakersfield, refracting into an infinity no North American consciousness
can contain. I did all this for you, I made it so that there was
someplace else... and what did you do for me?"

I close my eyes, hoping to avoid being seen. But Tom appears behind
them, dragging me by my spindly retinas into a raspberry thicket, deep
in the greenery behind the schoolhouse where, all those years ago, if
what he's saying is true, he and I romped into the life I'm living now,
across the desert that all my classmates died in. The tighter I close my
eyes, the more clearly I see this Holiday Inn on Ventura in the
distance, myself and Tom inside, having the conversation we're having
now, as if all the years in between were no more than a wide, weedy
field, strafed on occasion by radiant butterflies, spinning out of
yellow smog the colossal complexity within which it was my rare fate to
assume pride of place, or to once seem to be about to.

"You're a vessel, Tom," he continues, once I've reached the bed at the
end of this journey, at once sickened and relieved to find myself
already there. "Like everybody else. No one writes these things. You
thought it was you, all those years ago, hauling those movies like
stunned carp from the brackish pond of the *Tom & The Talking Chocolate
Bar* mythos, but all along it was me. The adventures you sent me on, the
pirate-maddened oceans, the treasure in Renaissance catacombs, the
jungle witches and ghosts in deepest space... the indestructible
cannibals stalking this city for eons, stuffing room after room with the
husks of drained actors, until there was no God in Los Angeles County
but them... all of what you would soon describe as your own
*inexhaustible well of hyper-vivid imagery*?" The chocolate bar,
inasmuch as it can, guffaws. "All of that was me, Tom. My voice, my
energy. I hand-selected you. And for what? That's the question you've
called me here to pose."

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

**Tom** falls silent, or I nod off, trying to forestall what I'm
beginning to sense might be the beginning of the end of the gangplank
between where we are and where we're going. As we pause, the nature of
the decision goes slack, fuzzing over with yellow mold, until I can't be
certain there is any decision any longer. Maybe I only ever dreamed it
was up to me.

So then what am I doing here? What did the years of furious labor yield,
if not this, if this isn't my fat reward, swollen almost to bursting,
waiting only for permission to pop? *A life of crime, a life of
crime*... The thing inside me sings an old pirate shanty as the climax
bobs into view. *A talking chocolate bar career, a talking---*

<br>
<p style="text-align:center;">_____________________</p>
<br>

**Well**, I can see that I'm not in that Holiday Inn any longer. Now
it's the monthly rental across the street, populated, I can also see, by
other men who only needed *a little more time to think*. I feel charged
up, carnivorous, ready for my life of crime as I pull a wet shirt over
my bare torso, grab the silent remains of a chocolate bar off the
mantle, and sally forth onto Ventura, chomping and munching as I go,
feeding on Tom's despair as he diminishes inside me, and I gloat in the
knowledge that I am the destroyer, not the destroyed. All the supple
energy boiling in every direction, up and down every side street of the
megacity, powering it as no battery or reactor ever could, feeds my
purpose, making me stronger than any Tom, even one for whom all went
right, could ever hope or even claim to be. Soon I'll grow stronger than
that, glutted on numen and chocolate and clean young blood, a devourer
of souls, my hour come round at last, free, finally, of Tom's whisper,
for which I now have nothing but disdain.

<br>
<p style="text-align:center;">_____________________</p>
<br>

**There** are still times, years later, well into the chaos that
consumed the city, when I---though I should revert to saying *Tom* here,
if only to preserve the possibility of some uncorrupted kernel in my
core---rifle through the candy racks at 7-Elevens all along Ventura,
pressing one chocolate bar after another to his ear, split between
hoping and fearing that Tom will speak again, that he will prove, even
after these decades, that their conversation is still ongoing, that he's
still waiting on the final decision. But, so far, nothing. Nothing but
the silence of tin foil and wax paper with an air-conditioner groaning
behind it, freezer doors opening and closing amid the clutter of dozens
of others like him, pressing bags of chips and cans of iced tea to their
ears, begging them to speak again, just one more time, to offer the
chance to say *yes* where before, in the foolish bloom of early middle
age, they'd imagined that glory came only from saying *no.*

"A talking chocolate bar career, a talking chocolate bar career..." Well
into his life of crime, Tom can't keep from uttering this phrase,
sometimes dozens or hundreds of times a day. All I can think, as I watch
the city weave him deeper into the life he's chosen, is that I'm glad
I'm not him any longer. I'm glad, more than anything, for the freedom
this has granted me. The freedom to see myself slinking, when no one's
awake, back across the desert and beneath the yellow wrapper and silver
foil of a chocolate bar in the 7-Eleven on North King Leopold, and to
wait there, however long it takes, for a child to take me down from the
shelf to hear---what child could resist?---my tale of slaughter and
cannibalism on such a scale that simply to retell it would guarantee a
script of such commercial magnitude that, were anyone left alive in Los
Angeles to read it, they surely would not be by the time the bidding war
was won.

Halfway through this desert journey, I console myself in the sunrise by
picturing Tom on Ventura under this same rising sun, seeking new blood,
his soft blue tongue hanging over the fangs I grew in him, thicker
around the middle than he was in his prime but otherwise far from
neutered. As he builds charge and the sun turns hot enough to singe my
metal and make my fatty spine smoke, I have to admit I can almost still
see in him what I saw before, and something in me quickens to know that
the city, despite its years of trying, has not yet found a way to kill
him, and therefore, though he may well end his days alone on streets
that once housed millions, never will. As the sun boils still hotter
upon me, and the distant promise of air-conditioned relief swirls upward
into a kind of heaven, I cast him finally out of mind and focus
everything I have left on convincing the next Tom, wherever I find him,
that this story is his alone and only he can tell it.
