---
layout: posts
title: Traveling with the Ghosts
description: Traveling with the Ghosts by Stella Vinitchi Radulescu reviewed by Ashley Wagner
author: Ashley Wagner
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... its compassionate approach to feelings of fear ...
date: 2020-08-17
issue: fall-2021
reviewer: true
writer: Stella Vinitchi Radulescu
image: '/assets/img/fall2021_og/wagner.jpg'
width: 625
height: 938
---

<p><em>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;the meaning&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;slips</em></p>

<p><em>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;away</em></p>

<p><em>– from “through my hair the wind”</em></p>


Often, when we find ourselves in moments of drought (of time, of energy,
of inspiration), we turn to artists, musicians, and writers almost as
authorities whose duty it is to uplift us, to give us immutable answers
to our most existential questions. When the meaning slips away, we
forget that art is not, in fact, a savior, but rather a tool used to tap
into the most vulnerable self. Poetry, in particular, is a tool of
empathy, and that is what I find particularly compelling about Stella
Vinitchi Radulescu's new English-language collection, *Traveling with
the Ghosts*: its compassionate approach to feelings of fear, banality,
and despair.

This timely collection, now available for pre-order with Orison Books,
is an exploration of that metaphysical place where language and thought
meet. This is not a book that instructs, it is one that *feels*, and it
feels deeply. Yes, there is much to despair---all the "bloody boots" and
"long dead / dreams." But hidden in the nooks are small kindnesses: the
"occasion / to wear a crown," the "Picasso on the wall play\[ing\] /
with the sun," the moralities that root down deep, steadfast in the face
of corruption.

A fascinating tension in *Traveling* is that between the necessity of
language to create something meaningful and the simultaneous
acknowledgement of language as an imperfect vessel susceptible to
misidentifying and vanishing altogether. Paired with Radulescu's deft
manipulation of soft, almost inconspicuous sounds, this anxiety comes to
a head in these lines from "adoration of the magi":

<p class="jahn-indent">objects have a soul</p>

<p class="jahn-indent">you think they don't & trample them</p>

<p class="jahn-indent">down & give them names</p>

<p class="jahn-indent">when names get lost in time&mdash;</p>

In these lines, naming parallels violence. As etymological history often
reveals---*yes, I'm looking at you, orca whales and "terrible
lizards"*---naming obscures the true nature of a thing, and with so many
remarkable creatures disappearing forever, how will we remember those
lost to time? What does it mean to face the impermanence of one's
thoughts, one's family, one's legacy? We "tell our children / stories of
war," and yet "silence is \[still\] leaking." We speak "in many
languages & / still can't find / the final word." There is no real
resolution to this tension (after all, how can there be?), but instead,
an understanding is reached in the final poem of the collection, "minus
infinity": sometimes the most appropriate thing to say is nothing at
all---

<p class="jahn-indent">there is nothing else</p>

<p class="jahn-indent">to say</p>

<p class="jahn-indent">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;the explosion is over</p>

In line with the quiet restraint found elsewhere in the book, Radulescu
is sparse in her use of imagery, but the images she chooses to include
are careful and tragic, sparking to life when placed beside more subtle
moments of intimacy. Take these few lines from "drought," for instance:

<p class="jahn-indent">I read Šalamun&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;New York</p>

<p class="jahn-indent">is burning</p>

<p class="jahn-indent">it will&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;it did&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;you want</p>

<p class="jahn-indent">pistachios my little god</p>

<p class="jahn-indent">of everything</p>

In this moment, Radulescu speaks disaster into the same breath as an
everyday moment of tenderness. By revising her tense three times in the
phrase "New York is burning," she even signals that tragedy *itself* is
our day-to-day. As a testament to that truth, many of these poems live
in this space of ongoing loss: "the past is dying on the / future's
tongue : taste of fire / cities covered / in dust" (elegy, 33).

But all of this is not to say that the work is dreary or defeatist:
these are not meager crumbs of joy in the bleak wood of reality. On the
contrary, these poems are awe-inspiring. The "you" in "drought", being
the speaker's "little god / of everything", looms far larger in the
world of the poem than the burning of New York. This does not mean that
the grief is no longer there, but that love and growth can thrive amid
despair. The grace with which Radulescu (a trilingual poet writing in
English, French, and Romanian) handles the melodies of the English
language is unparalleled and a compliment to her delicate treatment of
complex feelings of grief: "let me clean the air / with a vowel / or two
& start / the healing" (invocation, 6). The lifeblood of the book is the
way its accessible, lilting rhythm contributes to its ongoing sense of
hope when nothing is certain, not even the very form it is recorded in.

In short, Stella Vinitchi Radulescu shines in this collection. She does
not preach to her readers, but still leaves them with page after page of
wisdom to consider, break apart, and piece back together once more---

<p class="jahn-indent">some understanding comes from</p>

<p class="jahn-indent">a star</p>

<p class="jahn-indent">rowing the silence (epiphany, 91).</p>

[*Traveling with the Ghosts* is due for publication](https://www.orisonbooks.com/product-page/traveling-with-the-ghosts-by-stella-vinitchi-radulescu){:target="_blank"} on December 7, 2021.
