---
layout: posts
title: Bonding
description: Bonding by Maggie Siebert reviewed by Matt Lee
author: Matt Lee
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... I finished the whole damn book in one go ...
date: 2020-03-30
issue: summer-2021
reviewer: true
writer: Maggie Siebert
image: '/assets/img/summer2021/bonding.jpg'
width: 576
height: 1024
---

<img src="{{ '/assets/img/summer2021/bonding.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="img-fluid mx-auto my-4 d-block" alt="Bonding Cover Photo"/>

A thorny row of black metal calligraphy festoons the top and bottom,
like a pair of gaping fangs ready to snap your fingers off. The red and
black background is what appears to be a blurry mass of gore---bone,
muscle, blood. Through a haze of static we see woozy letters emblazoned
across the middle, a distorted message projected from an analog
graveyard. You try to place where you've seen it before. A worn VHS
plucked from the horror aisle of some backwoods rental shop? A scratchy
demo tape recorded just prior to the band's ritualistic suicide? No,
dear reader, this isn't some harsh noise fever dream. This is Maggie
Siebert's *Bonding*.

I sat down with a copy on a sweltering June day. Temperatures nearing
triple digits. No A/C. Steady stream of perspiration leaking from every
pore in my body. Slightly dehydrated, faintly lightheaded. Ideal reading
conditions. Figured I'd do a story or two then take a break. Instead, I
finished the whole damn book in one go. I tried to remember the last
time I'd done that. Probably *Jane Eyre* in college after
procrastinating up until the day before I had to turn in an essay on the
eldest BrontÃ«'s tedious masterpiece (I prefer Emily). Maggie Siebert is
like the madwoman in the attic if she had spent her confinement watching
*Faces of Death* on a loop instead of aimlessly wandering the halls of
that gloomy gothic manor every night. Give it a rest, Bertha.

The dozen stories that comprise *Bonding* are some of the sharpest I've
read all year. There's an addictive quality to Siebert's writing, like
pork rinds dusted with adderall. Perfect bite sized pieces that never
outstay their welcome, yet somehow linger in the mind long after
reaching the last page. How the hell does she do it? Siebert wastes no
time. Each story tosses you face first into a neatly self-contained
universe. Narrators divulge everything you need to know and nothing
more. There's no haranguing, no laboring on unnecessary details. A pet
dog mutates into a Rob Bottin monstrosity in "Best Friend." A woman's
necrotic tooth emits an odor so foul it precipitates the apocalypse in
"Smells." A janitor at a sex hotel puts their fist through a perv's
stomach *Riki-Oh* style in "Messes." Maggie Siebert is the poet laureate
of Tromaville.

Even at their most hyper fantastic, these stories are made all the more
striking because they feel almost plausible. There's a perfect balance
between excess and restraint, as Siebert writes with a clever
nonchalance. The narrator of "Opportunities," a former cage fighter with
a spotty memory and a gambling addiction, casually remarks, "I try to
look around and notice my left eye isn't going anywhere, and then
realize that's because it's no longer in my head." This sense of
understatement is used to remarkable effect throughout the collection.
It catches you off guard, making the stories consistently surprising and
unpredictable.

Part of the surprise is how Siebert juxtaposes humor with horror.
"Witches" opens with a vivid description of a five year old boy's
corpse. "He wore a cowboy's vest, child's Levi's with an elastic
waistband and a t-shirt that said 'Who's the Man?'" All it takes is that
last little detail. You shouldn't laugh, but you will. *Bonding* is full
of these sly, darkly comic moments. The characters in "The Prime
Minister" are more concerned with a game of Uno than the
interdimensional Lovecraftian monstrosities eviscerating their friends'
genitals. In the same way Sam Raimi uses slapstick to wink at the viewer
when ratcheting up the gore, Siebert lets us know it's okay to have fun
when the severed limbs start flying.

This isn't splatter for splatter's sake though. "Coping," a sort of
mash-up between Michel Gondry's *Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind*
and Brandon Cronenberg's *Possessor*, features outrageous moments of
violence. "She clicked the garden shears together and drove them through
his eye, feeling it bend from the pressure before the tension broke and
it popped, like biting into salmon eggs." Yum. As intense as the
violence can be, the emotional depth is always stronger. I connected
with these characters, felt genuine pangs of sympathy ripple my
calcified heartstrings. In the title story, father/son bonding reaches
extreme heights, culminating in a fight to the death. "I need you to
know that I love you," father tells son before breaking his nose. The
pathos is potent, the bloodshed unflinching.

Siebert keeps the collection fresh with formal experimentation. "Ammon"
is presented as an interview transcript (reminiscent of King's
*Carrie*). "Marriage" is part stage play, part disembodied voices
conversing from the ether. "The Alumni Association" feels like a taut
thriller, but instead of running from a crazed psychopathic killer, our
narrator is desperate to escape making a charitable donation to their
alma mater (same diff). The final story, "Every Day for the Rest of Your
Life," is perhaps the most haunting. Told in the second person, Siebert
injects us directly into the dread fueled narrative. "You have a project
that demands all your focus now. You're going to finish what started
many years ago." Without giving anything away, let's just say I'm taking
a break from eating meat. Thanks, Maggie!

*Bonding* marks an impressive debut from a young artist whose clarity of
vision never fails to astound. Siebert's voice is one to savor, her muck
filled world ripe for wallowing. If you, like me, graduated from
*Goosebumps* to *Guinea Pig*, quit wasting your time reading this review
and go score *Bonding* from the joyous lunatics running [Expat
Press](https://expatpress.com/product/bonding-maggie-siebert/){:target="_blank"}.
Whatever Maggie Siebert does next, you can bet your ass I'm buying a
ticket.
