---
layout: posts-no-author
title: Jeffrey DeShell Interview
description: Jeffrey DeShell discusses his work
author: Grant Maierhofer
tags: [interview]
excerpt: ... The image or story I might begin with in my head is always transformed by the act of writing ...
date: 2021-03-20
issue: summer-2021
interview: author of Masses and Motets
image: '/assets/img/summer2021/jeffrey.jpg'
width: 700
height: 414
---

Jeffrey DeShell is a genius. Whatever else I say here before getting to
the conversation I was lucky to have with him I want that said. From his
first book, which I think would be *The Peculiarity of Literature*, his
dissertation and an allegorical approach to Poe, through to his newest,
*Masses & Motets*, which is a language-heavy look at the sinewy reach of
Catholicism and crime, and abuse, and again language, DeShell has been
doing something that I don't think any other writer has been doing, and
because of that he's easy to categorize under the term of genius when it
comes to contemporary literature, or all literature rather.

The dissertation does something that's incredibly useful for anyone with
any skin in the game of literature, it pushes back against the notion
that literature ought to "do" anything, and tries instead to embrace an
approach to Poe's fiction that models this pushing back, finding out
what writing can do when we stop trying to extract things from it that
possibly are extractable but which nevertheless impede the first thing
or even the second or third thing a work of literature might be for any
one reader or writer. Sift through recent NYTimes Books pieces and
you'll find lots of "this novel predicted Trump in 1970!" or "finally a
novel that articulates how it feels to live on the internet!" Lots of
looking for things literature might be doing, because surely the thing
there could never be enough on its own.

That, in my opinion, would be sufficient for any one writer, to write an
academic work that does what I've just described his academic work to be
doing, but that was just the very beginning of what has been a long
academic and artful life for Mr. DeShell.

His first published fiction, *In Heaven Everything is Fine*, does what
Agustin Fernandez Mallo's Nocilla books do (I can't escape the "do") way
back when in the 90s. It's a fragmented look at the life of artists or
art-adjacent people, but told through what they're consuming, listening
to, reading, watching, etc. I remember first reading it and suddenly
thinking about *Paris, Texas*, seemingly for no reason, until I realized
the quote from Harry Dean Stanton's Travis in Wenders' film about living
someplace "without language" was plopped right there in the novel,
decades before ambient literature became a thing, or Reality Hunger
became a bestseller. I even mistakenly quoted DeShell's "A story? No. No
stories. Never again," without realizing it originally came from
Blanchot. Now again, this was in his first published book of fiction,
the first of many such experiments that either follow through on
promises lots of writers have made or come up with new promises most
writers wouldn't even think of.

What I'm mainly trying to assert, then, is that Jeffrey DeShell's
relationship to his work, and his work itself, is some of the most vital
stuff happening in fiction right now. I'll leave it at that then and let
the interview speak now for itself.

<figure class="mb-4 py-4">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/seperator.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="mx-auto d-block" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

**I'm very glad and honored to be speaking with you about your newest
book. To my mind you're one of the most adventurous writers of fiction
working today, and after years of reading your work the chance to ask
some questions is something, I'm very excited for. Each of your books,
to me, represents a completely new experiment, followed through to its
finish that's exhilarating to witness as a reader. I wanted to start,
then, by asking what they're like from your perspective as the
writer. *In Heaven Everything Is Fine* is sort of the inverse of an
autobiographical, ars poetica novel. Arthouse is similar but focused
around cinema. And these most recent books, *Expectation* and *Masses
and Motets* are set up as mysteries following a detective in Francesca
Fruscella. Do you need the overall concept before you get working?
What's your relationship to genre when you're writing? **

Grant, thank you for the kind words. I've read your work with admiration
and interest, and I'm very much looking forward to this conversation.

*Ligeia* huh? One of my favorite Poe stories. I've always wondered what
their lives were like after she returned form the dead. Thank you
*Ligeia*.

I've always avoided the word (or concept) of "concept" or "the
conceptual." To me that implies something that remains on the level of
thought, of theory. I find writing more visceral than that, more
physical if you will, more of a struggle on many levels---emotional,
physical, mental, historical (and often hysterical), subconscious,
theological, imaginative etc. I never find writing just thought or
concept: the image or story I might begin with in my head is always
transformed by the act of writing, so that what ends up finally on the
page is very different, unrecognizable sometimes from what I might have
initially "conceived." For better or worse. That's part of the joy for
me, of the experiment if you will, discovering what (it is) I am
writing.

For me, the word "concept" or "conceptualism" carries with it a certain
whiff the naïve and violent suppression of difference, of a naïve and
violent indifference to (the problems of) language. And it's often not
as smart as it thinks: "I've got this great idea for a novel. . . all I
have to do is write it."

That being said, I do often start with a problem, often a technical
question, and this problem sooner or later evolves (devolves? mutates?)
into a second problem, that of how to tell the story, the story that has
developed from the technical question. The technical question often
takes the form of a *what would happen?* question. What would happen if
I wrote a novel where every chapter was influenced by a different film?
*Arthouse*. What would happen if I wrote a novel trying to tell my
mother's story as she was losing language to dementia? *The Trouble with
Being Born.* What would happen if I didn't use punctuation, and rewrote
*The Bostonians*? *S & M*. What would happen if I used a lot of
punctuation, and rewrote *Pierre*? *Peter: An (A)Historical Romance*.
What would happen if I write a novel where I took serial music technique
to prose? *Expectation*. And so on. I start with a compositional
question, and eventually that gives me a story. Which I then pursue. I
certainly don't, can't, separate stories from the technical questions,
or technical questions from their stories. I've always been amazed by
fiction writers who think they've moved beyond plot: I've never been
that clever.

As to genre, I am certainly interested in genre per se, in the fact that
genre comes from outside the particular writing project, pre-exists the
writing project, and determines, to a greater or lesser extent, the form
the writing takes. I don't find this determination inhibiting, quit the
contrary: I find great freedom in having at least part of the game
predetermined. The questions arise as to where genre begins. Is prose a
genre? Is fiction? Is grammar as such? And then, of course, where does
it end?

As to particular genres, I'm not interested in all genres equally. I'm
not particularly interested in horror, as I think the world is truly
horrific enough in reality, nor do I find fantasy engaging or
compelling. But I realize that some do, and I also realize that there is
some important and beautiful writing within these categories: Stephen
Graham Jones and Brian Evenson come to mind, and I admire their books
greatly. I do love melodrama, and I would put Douglas Sirk, Thomas
Bernhard and Flannery O'Connor in this category, along with Percival
Everett. And, of course, I'm heavily invested in the mystery story,
especially those of Poe, Patricia Highsmith, Jo Nesbo and recently
Walter Mosley.

I find the mystery genre useful for a host of reasons. Here are two.
First of all, the mystery genre exposes the close relationship readers
have to the detective: we're all reading clues to find out what happens.
I think fiction, especially self-conscious fiction, is a certain crime.
And so, who better to "solve" it than the reader/detective? Secondly,
this momentum, of trying to find out what happens, allows me the freedom
to explore the technical problems without, as it were, losing the plot.
The mystery is like the bass line, it provides the forward momentum in
time over which I can follow some of my interests and obsessions. In
*Masses and Motets*, the whole of Catholic mythology and pageantry
became fair game, and I felt the somewhat pressing question of who
killed the priest and why gave me the ostinato below so I could
investigate some of those images and questions. But, like many writers,
if I write within a particular genre, I like to fuck it up.

**This is fascinating to read. I'd known about the *Pierre* connection
but hadn't remembered reading about the *Bostonians* connection to
*S&M*. I wanted to ask, since we're talking about your work, what the
experience was politically with that book? Aside from Gilles Deleuze on
Brian Evenson's *Altmann's Tongue* I think it's got my favorite blurb of
any book: "We're concerned about the level of judgment that's been
exercised by the people responsible for its publication ... such
materials are a violation of what most people in Iowa would find
prudent. REPRESENTATIVE KENNETH VEENSTRA, R --- ORANGE CITY, IOWA" With
Lawrence Ferlinghetti's recent passing I've been thinking a lot about
what a contemporary situation like that with *Howl* might look like, and
this seemed like a decent example. What, if you're comfortable talking
about it, was the whole situation with *S&M?***

I wish I had a bunch of stories about fighting the man, speaking truth
the power and being persecuted for my art. Truth is, I was living in
Turkish Cyprus when the book was published, with very slow internet. And
so, whatever controversy the book stirred up, well, I pretty much
missed.

The quote from Veenstra was in reaction to an excerpt from *S&M*
published in the *Iowa Review*. I doubt that he or his staffers ever
picked up a copy of *S&M*. And then a couple of years later, the US
House of Representatives published a congressional report on the sex
life of Bill Clinton. So much for obscenity.

**With *Masses and Motets* it became clear to me that one of the writers
you've got perhaps the most in common with might be Umberto Eco, in
terms of your similar obsessions, and the ways in which you're able to
remain inventive and curious when many writers are often at a standstill
as to how significant a book can even be. Is this something that's on
your mind as you're working? When you mentioned the priest I was put in
mind of Eco's "I felt like poisoning a monk" which he said led to *The
Name of the Rose*. In this regard would you say your work as an academic
overlaps with your work as a fiction writer? Are you able to hold onto
the, I don't know, mission of this sort of work with things as they
are?**

I must admit to being flattered by your assertion that I've remained
"inventive and curious." Part of what gets me interested in a project is
a technical problem, one that I haven't previously solved or addressed.
Again I return to the "what if': what it I put in hardly any punctuation
(*S&M*)? What if I used an abundance of punctuation (*Peter*)? What if I
rigorously applied a sort of twelve-tone system to sentence structure
(*Expectation*)? I don't always start with these questions: sometimes it
takes a while to discover whatever it is that I'm actually doing. For
me, the one of the real joys of writing novels is finding out what form
I'm worrying, and then to revise the writing in order to bring these
questions into relief. I think there are more problems than I have
novels in me, and so I likely won't repeat myself. That's the hope
anyway.

I've not read Eco, but there are a number of writers/thinkers I find
myself in conversation with who might be exploring the boundaries of
criticism and fiction. I've always been drawn to the work of Maurice
Blanchot, and lately, especially since *Masses and Motets*, I've been
taken with Simone Weil.

I'd like to change your terms, as I really have a negative visceral
reaction to the word "academic." I'd like to substitute the word
"critical" if I may. And yes, I agree with you, I'm very interested in
the points of contact between what we may term the critical and the
fictional. I think they critical and fictional *can* share a great deal,
as both are discourses that tell stories about stories, and both are
discourses that seek to have some effect on the world at large. And both
understand, or should understand, that their effect on the world is
unknowable, uncontrollable. It's always impossible to know how any
writing is going to work in the world, and that impossibility is
literature's greatest power. But then all those words, like
"literature," "impossibility" and "power" must take on several different
meanings. And I like that very much. I'm drawn to ambivalence more than
anything, I think.

**I kept thinking about a sort of odd reference point for this book,
embroiled as it is in the world of crime, religion, and the crimes of
religion, Dan Brown's Robert Langdon novels. In part because of your
preoccupation with the language of religion, and really language itself,
and how that's treated, and then too because *Masses & Motets* seemed to
take the themes of Dan Brown far more seriously, and engage them the
same way you've engaged existent texts in previous work. Is there
anything useful to glean from positioning those books alongside your
work here? I found myself wishing the whole way through that mass market
paperbacks of crime fiction and the like were treated so seriously,
while also being relatable and human.**

I don't know the Dan Brown novels, but I'm a big fan of detective and
mystery novels. I wrote my dissertation on Poe, and I've been reading
the genre since grad school. I just finished Mosley's Easy Rawlins
series, and before that I read all of Wallander, Harry Hole, Beck, Jack
Reacher, those Pizzafalcone Bastards, the Marseille trilogy, and
Wexford, of course. If I like a book, I'll usually try to read the
series, in order. That usually makes me really want to visit the
locales.

I learned a lot about fiction writing from some of those books. At least
I think I learned a lot. The importance of setting; the sense of
narrative momentum that a crime and its "solution" seems to provide; the
reliance on dialogue as a form of character presentation and conflict
development. In some, there's the very real pleasure of seeing some sort
of equilibrium restored: a crime threatens the moral universe, and the
detective works to re-establish some sense of balance. I'd put Wexford,
Reacher, and Wallander (to a certain extent) in this category. In others
(Hole, the Continental Op, Easy Rawlins etc.), the "solution" to the
crime or mystery is really no solution at all. It might solve the more
immediate problem of whodunnit, but the more interesting questions of
race, culture, gender and existential violence, pain and yes beauty,
become all the more immediate, and all the more impenetrable. While
ideally I'd like readers to feel some satisfaction from the story, I
don't think Fruscella really solves anything. On many levels, I think,
she's not a very successful detective.

I see I answered the second part of your question first. Pierre de la
Rue's music is so beautiful and pure---everything, even Bach, sounds
almost cluttered beside it. This got me to wonder how such absolute
purity and beauty could co-exist with the unimaginable horror of
priestly pederasty. It's this extreme, unspeakable and insolvable
opposition, that intrigued me from the beginning.

It's a condition that neither western philosophy nor western psychology
can begin to articulate and explore. The oppositions are too extreme for
Hegel---they can't be synthesized. And Freudian cause/effect thinking
also falls short---there's really no reason or rationale for these two
poles to co-exist: this original and originating schism can't be
approached through thinking in terms of the human, the human psyche that
is psychology. And so what then could provide the language to develop my
story? What kind of detective can work outside both Hegel and Freud?

I turned to the language of theology. Specifically the language of
negative theology. Negative theology insists that in order to take God
seriously, in order to take God at all, he cannot be human. He can't
just be a BIG man, a supreme father. And since language is human, then
we really can't say or imagine what God is like. At all. And so we must
rely on articulating what God is *not*. I found that negative theology
is he only language that respects the Other as other, that doesn't try
to make the other into the same. Which is the project of both Hegel (the
other as the world) and Freud (the other as self). And so the language
and thinking of theology was a way of exploring these fundamental
differences of beauty and horror. It's an open-ended language: one has
no idea who or where or what the other might be. Belief is an openness
to an other. Theology, which is at is root a series of stories, was a
good way for me to think about how to tell this particular story.

**This is the second in your series of detective fictions starring
Francesca Fruscella, and it feels like this character, and this setup,
has so wonderfully clicked with the various forms your previous books
have taken, and yet there are many distinctions one could draw even
between the first Fruscella book, Expectation, and this one. Is this
something you're planning to continue mining in further books? Was there
anything liberating about this construction to you as the writer?**

I'm planning at least a couple more---the Miles Davis/Thelonious Monk
one I'm working on now, and perhaps a final book listening and thinking
about Beethoven, and his late, deaf works. I really like stories---I
haven't come close to solving narrative yet.

<figure class="mb-4 py-4">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/seperator.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="mx-auto d-block" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

<img src="{{ '/assets/img/summer2021/jeffrey.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="img-fluid mx-auto mt-4 d-block" alt="Jeffrey DeShell Photo"/>
<footer class="blockquote-footer mb-3 mt-0"> <cite title="Source Title">Photo by Emmanuel David</cite></footer>

**Jeffrey DeShell**, novelist, professor, and literary critic, is the
author of six novels: *Expectation*, *S & M*, *Arthouse*, *The Trouble
With Being Born*, *In Heaven Everything is Fine* (FC2), and *Peter: An
(A)Historical Romance* (Starcherone), as well as a critical book, *The
Peculiarity of Literature: An Allegorical Approach to Poe's Fiction*. He
has co-edited two collections of fiction by American women, *Chick-Lit
I: Postfeminist Fiction* and *Chick-Lit II: No Chick Vics* (FC2), and
was a Fulbright Teaching Fellow in Budapest, Hungary, 1999--2000.
Currently, DeShell is a Professor of English, where he has served as the
Director of the Creative Writing Program at the University of Colorado
at Boulder.
