---
layout: posts
title: Acid Ecstasy
description: A short story by O F Cieriâ€”Acid Ecstasy
author: O F Cieri
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... Before his ascension, the next messiah sat on a mesa with a bottle of water ...
date: 2020-12-12
issue: winter-2020
image: '/assets/img/winter2020_og/cieri.jpg'
width: 640
height: 480
---


Before his ascension, the next messiah sat on a mesa with a bottle of
water. All around him were other campers in similar states of sobriety.
All smiling, young, potent thinkers from dedicated festival regulars to
exhausted coders. All of them were there for something; funding,
basebuilding, employing, advertising, whatever they convinced themselves
they needed all served a greater purpose.

They were seeking something both insubstantial and totally genuine, an
honest authenticity that no school or seminar could teach. Hundreds of
people had applied to speak at the tech convention and dozens were
accepted. Speakers flew in from around the world, imperfectly convinced
that they were in possession of that fabled alchemical property, the
Rockstar Quality. Not just charisma, creativity, ambition, or luck, but
the kernel at the core of the venn diagram that represented all four
elements at once.

The catalyzing agent that jumpstarted the next messiah was a bona-fide
spiritual teacher, a genuine Maya of Peruvian nationality, an accredited
Doctor of Theology. He'd been on archeological digs and spirit visions,
lectured in universities and dirt floor churches with equal gravity.
He'd built his church on an explicit support of the modern, welcoming
new ideas as evidence that God was still speaking to humans. It was the
spiritual teacher who wrote the prescription for acid and ecstasy
waiting to be unleashed through the next messiah's bloodstream.

"No Ayahuasca?" the next messiah joked when the sacrament arrived, and
the man laughed. The next messiah didn't know it, but ayahuasca had been
officially restricted from the festival after some bright young things
chased visions of Steve Jobs off the edge of a cliff. As much as the
doctor would have loved to provide Ayahuasca, he walked a narrow
tightrope over the pit of discovery. His speeches and seminars were
still being circulated online, but now they were used to help identify
sexual predators. If anyone googled his name, the accusations would have
filled the screen, but those seminars weren't translated into English,
and no one on the organizing board spoke any other language. All the
better for the spiritual teacher. He rebranded himself and wrote a brand
new script to explain how ecstasy and acid were God's real sacrament.

"Do you know why the Catholics drink wine?" he asked. In Peru he wore
t-shirts and suits, but in America he wore traditional clothing. His
cocky smile stayed the same. "Dionysus. Before the Greeks learned how to
write, they learned fermented grapes would release their inhibitions.
They thought they were taken ahold of by gods. They saw themselves in
thrall to their deities."

"Are you saying wine doesn't do that?" one of the students shouted, and
everyone laughed.

"There is more than one key to your mind," the old man explained. "The
reason you need a teacher is to direct you down your path. Otherwise,
you flounder on the shores of your unconscious. Wine has been a
sacrament for millennia before Christianity, but how many of you have
felt connected to the divine while drunk?"

There was a general murmur of agreement. Someone in the back raised his
voice with an uncertain lilt, suggesting nights that might have brought
him to Heaven. The audience, and the doctor, laughed. With that one
gesture he won the messiah's whole heart; he hadn't felt this wide eyed
and excited since he was a child. He entered the auditorium unsure the
doctor could deliver. The convention was just a sample platter full of
tastes to entice new clients, and he'd mostly come for the free acid.

The next messiah's father had been raised by the hippie generation. He
knew hopeful social consciousness wouldn't save anyone, threw himself at
earlier philosophies hoping to grab hold of something concrete. His
father dropped acid, listened to the Beatles and waited trembling for
his third eye to open. He emerged from his journeys whole, with
cautionary tales to pass down about burnout and permanent acid trips.
His father was sure he'd encountered some universal truth, and yet it
hadn't changed him much. He didn't even switch his college major. All
acid seemed to do was foment a loving curiosity in safe psychedelic
travels to his young son. The next messiah took acid and ecstasy all
throughout high school, and never saw anything he didn't expect.

"The door to heaven is sealed until the moment of our deaths," the
mystic said. "No path on Earth will take you around it. You won't see
the face of God in this lifetime. Remove that possibility from your
mind, that won't happen. Our purpose is to prove you are interwoven in
the fabric of this plane of existence, no better or worse than any other
aspect. I see some of you nodding. You all know, intellectually, that
this is true, but you don't fully understand it. When astronauts go to
space, they experience a shift in their understanding that is called the
Overview Effect, where they understand, for the first time, that we are
a part of this world, not separate. Again, you all know this, but you
haven't experienced the Overview Effect. The medicine I've given you is
designed to create a euphoric separation from your rational, balanced
minds, and allow you to swim in the sea of subconscious while still
awake. Combined, these two prescriptions upset your sense of balance and
order, which will force you to re-evaluate your place, and force a state
of religious ecstasy."

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

The next messiah was beginning to feel the early effects of the drugs in
his system, the giddy butterflies building up in his stomach. Or maybe
it was just nerves.

"Chemically induced religious fervor was first described as an entheogen
in the sixties, *after* it was synthesized and tested. It was first
developed to be a truth serum."

Long pause, a bubble of laughter. The messiah's senses were separating
like oil in water, and he realized with a jolt that *Oh fuck*, that
wasn't cheap, watery acid. His eyes weren't connected to his ears, his
skin buzzed with electricity. The auditorium seemed to break in clumps
and smear across his vision. He was losing his balance. He grit his
teeth, straightened his back, and stared at the stage where he knew the
doctor was talking, but he couldn't focus on the words. He heard the
history of LSD, muted, but he already knew that story. He could
practically say it with him.

He was slipping. He knew this was supposed to be trip setting, but
something jarred him. He wasn't *with* the auditorium, he was *apart*
from it, like a loose nail on a piece of furniture. A bead of sweat fell
off his nose and hit the back of his hand. It was a sign. The acid was
activating. He had to leave. He stood and worked his way through the row
of chairs, to the aisle, to freedom. His feet tangled with others,
people grew restless.

"Water," he croaked, scrambling over the knees of other attendees. "I
need water."

It was a lie and the truth, he needed water because he'd taken a juicy
tab of ecstasy, but because he was on ecstasy, he didn't need anything.
The people in his row pushed him into the aisle, where he landed
face-first on the ground. He kicked his feet under him and was moving
before he'd stood, scrambling on his hands to the door. Once outside he
ran to the nearest food vendor and grabbed a bottle of water. All his
convention purchases were automatically deducted from his account, but
in that moment, the relief of convenience warred with his vestigial,
nascent fear of surveillance.

He was confused by his hesitance. Surveillance was endemic, fears of a
panopticon were for another generation, and the next messiah's goal was
to take full advantage of every opportunity science could offer him.
Anyone who would refuse automatic toilet paper refills and quick, easy
impulse buys was being irrational and performative. He thought he
understood, but in that moment he froze while unscrewing the bottle,
overwhelmed by a sense of being pinned and insectile, more like a stock
character in a cautionary children's movie than a pioneer. He scrambled
for balance and remembered that he was, ultimately, fine. He had water,
his wallet, and his cellphone. If he was too fucked up to find his hotel
room, he could beg a security guard to take pity on him. Undignified but
safe, and in the morning when he woke up in his bathtub or amongst the
ruins of his curtains, he could feel a wave of shame before ordering
room service.

Warmth flooded his chest as his brain alchemetized. His eyes were like
crystals with a perfect lattice structure. When filled with sun, the
light separated in a spectrum of colors. His vision was rimmed in blues,
greens and reds as he looked out onto the tech convention and saw it the
way he looked at fairs when he was little, full of huge machines that
offered exciting adventures. The crowd was like a stream trickling
through dirt, and he followed it the way a child would, amused and
curious.

A sober mind was too blunt to identify the subtle flow of kinetic energy
through the chaotic, swirling pattern of tech con pedestrians, but the
messiah wasn't hampered by sobriety. He followed it out of the
convention, into the desert, and arrived at the mesa. All around him
were other people who could see the same freedom and peace from the
cliff, as the late afternoon blew cool gusts of air through the hot
pillars of the sun. The desert was stretched out before them under the
blue dome of the sky, and the wind in his hair was like a soft hand
brushing off the last of the discomfort from the auditorium hall. He
tried to remember the doctor's name, but he couldn't remember human
details about him. He remembered the man had salt and pepper hair, a
white shirt and pants, but the memory was morphing as he tried to focus
on it. As he stared over the cliff, and wavy textures invaded his field
of vision like worms, he remembered the phrase Overview Effect.

The waves grew thick and fibrous, took root and sprouted. He had never
seen a peyote plant before, and he didn\'t know the chemical structure
of ecstasy. Instead grapes, bitter or sweet, filled his thoughts. The
vines crisscrossed the landscape of his mind as Dionysus Christ climbed
out of the grave of the collective unconscious. Joseph Campbell grabbed
him by the neck, stuck a knife in his stomach and unseamed him like a
duffle bag to reveal a tiny Luke Skywalker, a Goku, Superman, Batman,
heroes spilling out like a slot machine. The warm, moving guts flopped
out of the cavity and tore, freeing thousands of smaller, boring heroes
from films the next messiah hadn't seen. It was like watching a spiders'
egg sac breach.

Hairs rose from the back of his neck. He shut his eyes and shook his
head, trying to clear the vision from his mind, but the more he resisted
the more it clung to his consciousness. Fighting it was useless. Instead
he stretched flat on his back on the mesa and let the waves submerge
him.

The wind washed hot air over his body as he lay back. In his mind,
millions of tiny heroes wriggled and fought like grubs, but every moment
the vision overtook him was followed by a gust of wind. He thought to
himself, this was what the doctor meant. Bad acid trips come from the
detritus of a cluttered mind, buried under free association. The best
results come from a clear mind, unconcerned with outcomes or solutions.

He felt the epiphany before he understood it. It was like a stone
falling into the pit of his stomach as he scrambled to unravel it. He
envisioned himself catching it, holding it, then folding up and digging
into it like a worm in an apple. Inside was a forest of DNA-like
ladders, burdened with information.

Solutions were the problem, he realized. Outcomes, productivity, goals,
all artificial. He was experiencing the same self-awareness he had
during a brief period of unemployment after college, when he realized
that life was meaningless. There was nowhere to go, no one to see and no
distractions to keep him from the knowledge that his birth was an
accident. He was experiencing that awakening again, but he was entering
it from a different perspective; he had places to go and people to see,
but he couldn't keep that knowledge in his head. Holding on to them made
the monomyth split into further microfractures and splinter deeper into
his conscious mind.

The waves of sunlight were growing cooler as the sun set. The sky was
like a watercolor painting, the sun a shiny coin. Outside the
over-excited neurons of his burning brain was reality, where the
monomyth couldn't follow. He was safe with all the world.

Epiphany was washing over him like the wind. Was there an epiphany
before this one? There must have been, if there was a word for it, but
this was bigger than himself. He marvelled at it. He'd never had
anything of such sheer magnitude. As soon as he thought it he felt a
flash of fear. Did he deserve it? Was it really *his*? How could he own
something like this? The fear started to morph into pride... how indeed
could a man own something like this... what did it mean to hold
intellectual property on this scale... If he was capable of holding
thoughts that large inside his own skull then he was chosen to have
them. God was his seed investor, his angel funder. He could see the
great desk under God's shaggy white beard. He could feel the giddiness
that came from a successful pitch. He'd nailed it. He was the one with
the Rockstar Quality.

He was ascended.
