---
layout: posts
title: Mage
description: A short story by Evan Isoline—Mage
author: Evan Isoline
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... I hold a knowing for a tiny time ...
date: 2020-12-10
issue: winter-2020
image: '/assets/img/winter2020_og/isoline.jpg'
width: 640
height: 425
---


**An Event of One or Many** \| I hold a knowing for a tiny time. And
knowing what one wants is an awful thing to know. The weight inside me
like love wept. Gold skull-stars. Mild me to the maniacal moonchewed red
maggot. You who in the light blaze, keen to what in shadows drive, flat
the slatest tails of atoms, drench their curved paths in sleazy
sunbirths, hollow, everywhere, frozen into shape. I've held another
knowing as long as I haven't. To be apart. To be quiescent. To taste
your monologues. I swim the seas, waking into some compulsion of
vanishment, as to bear the infinitude hanging in from the gyre, and each
kiss a crest, until with glass I weep, curling over fenestrations. How
hard it is! Let the sun do the dying. Let the vista run the razor 'cross
the brittle brine of sex. Now to ice, new to steam. Dreams, slanted
birds on the thermals, cactus tears in mud. Infinitely then, me still
waiting; I know no hesitation. It has always been this way. Nowhere to
be. Left in the gibbous omnichord, more our fool than my wizard. It is
somewhere's stilted solipsism that the tongue be wicked, surely, but,
however perverse, I still know it. Words gutter the vein, and disappear
in tender triptychs evincing a secret passage. How easy the tone-mirror,
space-vaulted by fault lines or warring gravity, above now and then,
burning, in concert with the faces of allies in bled-out misery. Bring
me in, O glazier, to speak, better than silence, more windowed than
nothing.

**A Fiction** \| You in me. Once this your splice-scream. You at my
core. Who gives to him so many valedictorial words when you know not
what? And yet knowing what one wants, knowing that the knowledge of this
was a horror, or worse, that the horror of knowledge itself was an
intolerable restlessness---and to have upon that occasion of want only a
suspicion, a feeling, a glimpse, that something of truth had hidden a
lie. Sing without breath, as the heart's sepulchral chant requires,
while your anthem is naught but quiet death. With no lines to form, go
forth, till the cluster-squabble of yearlings unite to say of something,
some offering to honor. Strike, pry and pluck the prostrate, as unto
rejuvenate the extinct. Shrive yourself a paean as a merge or a balkage,
the soft bade of humours at yonder bend. Symmetries mooshed to grind
within one's slumber, taken off carrion's star like your head bent back
in dream, leering into that inchoate form of communication, inside of
wayward pinnacles where the cortis of the montanum is sunfucked, the
avalanche lily, sound asleep. And he whose head and lap glows suddenly
hot, he who fevered width on a bower, well, he will make with the
beasts. For every king, from pansy to primula, an everyday mutinage we
perform. Although a conflict it may be, one mustn't concede to temporal
combat. On the falsities we breathe, an illusion or two. Swallow the
fig, swallow the worm, swallow the bee, swallow the god! It was pie-eyed
fear, this whole picnic, and I always seem to be sleeved in the walm.

**An Illusion** \| The others, not beholden to apotheosis, even the
rhythm of the water-wind by evening, the whole of them at best blasé
through the vestiges of time, unwind in midnight stubble, and chalk
underneath. What has brought these primal longings to life and if I were
made anew, would I not quail as a foetus in the womb, or be discouraged
by these conditions which are so trying? Unveil my endearments, pursue a
language of chance as a doppelgänger of the echo, splooging round the
dragways of the bombed-out moon. Let it bloom for the face of
expectation. A spritz of my cryoturbated offspring by roll of vam with
divine grace. Lunatic redux. Fibula of the snot. Sneeze a beetled diode.
Sizzle strums. Cum sun. I know what it is, but after this experiment
will I see another, like a gilded ghost and wither at the flashback of
my flesh? No matter. Pin the sensation to my body, with little crystals
coutured to the skunkholes, paint the squelch in pink slime I spit from
my vermillion-petalled arse. This imago made to function outside of the
I, and yet nothing, say, as an indefinite dull gusto of the present to
which I'd stolen myself, has given the opportunity for reassurance or
reciprocity---and so I falter and demand a reprieve. Each reality
tracking each passage of long-feigning domain and for now I am separate,
vulnerable. Pay my paltry tithes of organic tenderness, conflume in the
umbilicus by the rouge crushes of the inverted world!

**A Grammar** \| Episodic. Rarified. Skewed arcs of bubbled fecundity
that smear the farm-yard's glib and girly muzzles. It is nature, surely,
they'd forged into the grave of possibility. But then, gracefully
glozed, up and down over the edge. Look down. To our line. Wild
buddleia. The tropical, whispered-out, dark, neon saliva deltas of
velvety bondage, of a prime swath, and being of it. The sand volta.
Index. Simile. Biographeme. God. Tussocky dulce et amore. That, marked
with our living. Pathos. We took a test and we failed. Like children.
Our embers fast aglow and gentle, welped in the most hurried kindle that
preceded great stars\' ascensions, my carousel rider who extends its
hands from a telescopic height. I know your gathering, you who do not
know; I know what asperities of grog choke the flytrap, known or not,
but perennially agoraphilic, the hairy narcissus with dog's teeth gleams
on dimmed days, wastes its mucky child on what is coughed into the face
of holiness, while the still-raging or running waters poison the
nations. Barely comprehending my need, retracting against the universe's
heft, scanning the cupped valises of our pet minotaur. He's safe behind
the rim, asleep for now, a fish-out-of-water in his new hometown, the
commotion only a sign of anything. No creature, the best of
make-believe, can produce such a shout. Pricking my pen upon the
maze-side of prickly primroses, I segued by twilight's greatly splashed
rooms, in the blinkered and smileless absence of azure. Nothing could be
simpler. There is no screen. In fact I'm puked up on a sandy plain full
of ripe bogberries, my salacious vision a grubby emissary to the
commonwealth, and the face of the commonwealth was large and ripe and
cruel.

**A Hypothesis** \| The enfleurage. The sub-rosa. The molecular nudity.
The acid virgins. Their imprimatur. Their hieroglyphicality. Slurred
eyes fixed upon the powder keg, flitting past the gleaming epoxy
latches, to rest upon a self-enclosing trap. To believe. One to the
other, raze their wordless surfac'd rash as I snicker and toggle. Any
limit fathomable, insinuative nodules that inflame no pity for one who
stands, upon the edge of entropy's threshold, and frets---whenever I am
moved by the neat logic of that curve, in sine sanguis slugged-up with
fluid cordials in the teeming gut-tract, with a stratum of cantilever
soaked in pleads from wither'd gonads. We drink on silent buzzes, or
mewl at sweet moaning balms, or frolic amidst the tell-talements of high
mimesis, or parrot divine idioms of the immutable ancients. We nod and
flutter and squeeze. We pour and pour. We roll on and we breathe and
gasp. Look up. Look below. Arise, Bloom, Embrace. We ride the whoom-hiss
on thunder's skiffs---Ah, the dark spring of being and the lewd
surroundings fathom'd deep---and even now death is born blooming, on its
broadsides bathed in wee canaries. But here you must drag us out, this
is the diem that reveals commencement: the stench of scorched haikus.

**A Theory** \| Fellow quixosis our wonderhoods. Fellow and
disseminating cargo of time, who placate our inner riots on collective
truce. Fill our lungs from the anus of summer, lilac to the rushtender,
oleander to landmine. A revolt you granulate against the resplendent
stages, inject'd by the blazing tongue of stars into the water, you lay
incursive notes upon my latitudes, and when, even in the depths of the
heart, into which all passions are poured, you lay scant and hungering
for life's first touch. Of my every voyage, of my personal matter, of
dizziness, comfort, perfume, nudity, of all the permutations of the
present. Of mythos, I wondered---if I had gotten ahead of myself. Love
in no place is paradise and no dream ever within reach. Love for nowhere
is a gravid ghost. You took flight through the slimy oubliettes exploded
by penumbras, time in motion, and the mouth a smear that detonated and
dumped a gooey milk of flies, which touch over it on one side, and keep
it closed-in on the other. I am here and there. I pee in the snow
outside under the bloodless bronze trees, lollygag in laments of toothed
slips in the farthest margins of the night. I see the flash of phage
futures, divine above the route in famine or jilted down in abeyance. I
peel our shrouds and swing and then fly and all people sing, the
breathless maunder of starry eyes glisten, O, for the loneliness, where
you struck a match and all the kites scattered, flowing down the night,
the liminal red silk, exposed and open on the mirror of the water.
Having forgotten its meaning, we're dreaming in rhyme, and the more we
dream, the faster we're falling, and the faster we're falling the faster
we rise. For what and whence would this be any other way but now, where
and how, my wretched marble hour. I know, yes. I sip to be numb, gack
off a gash and knell over the regoliths. There's no logorrhea of ritual.
So some pray from honey-hole to life, in the leche of sweet-meadow time,
delighting in what had naught of worth for human hands to scrounge over,
until that day. I'm laying eggs in the drain of humectants. There's
nowhere to go now but home---any home at all.

**A Contradiction** \| When, with feeling, as if it's my own, I am where
you were, with you here, and then I, in order not to lose, revel in the
pulsing wattles of the xylem. Electrons, imperfections, indiscernible,
excited by new unspeakably harsh dreams. Earthwise, from the vain demand
of penury, the apprentice watches. Our flesh wild and we ebb and flow
and more the whole while, this primordial buoyancy,
half-tide-half-breeze, has us waiting, singing, the world rising on high
to meet us, and we stroll through grooved glories for heaven to see and
rampage and gather, our light so disturbed we can't shift shape.
Elsewise over landscapes, I sutured upon the first howl of erasure, I
waded at dawn into the delicious treacle of dark strands, my savaged
spilled-out skull and the stellar sandfire that takes our breaths, all
this reeks of fall-swooning beyond the free-span, of which speaks the
cobra-silk with bisyllabic trills, sighs into the wavy cloud-form of
molecules, down, up, open, leering past the lipless subedges, along the
slender cavity of gene-edited microbe frames, up past the instant yellow
obliquity by clingy cockleburs, the bay glows bright with rings of
light, beacons to shore, lake, lagoon, et al., isthmus letted of the
rush of this-and-then-that, meandering river, slough, stream, etc.,
seconds breathlessly turn into minutes, hours, days, years across dark
and vaster waters, dynamic currents gathering and demarcating, leashed
with relish in heretofore unknown forms of fate, running, rising,
gushing, the riveting fluency and violence of change transmuting the
spark as it purrs and lashes from within the hydrologistic surge, and
the ache and ache of destiny excretes in brief escapes, and the magician
is nobody's dream come true, and all of the world's dead are suddenly
alive, the swift glimpses, so rare, so intense, roaring, swelling,
flooding, churning, crashing, that are then on and on, and in what
company---it's almost never us and it's always already us---in such an
odd place, why then and when, as of now and ever and for what?
