---
layout: posts
title: Cosplay or Die
description: A flash fiction piece by Christopher S. Bell - Cosplay or Die
author: Christopher S. Bell
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... I wasn’t sure if he was intrigued or merely humoring my origin story, but I agreed to one more round ...
date: 2019-06-10
issue: winter-2019
image: '/assets/img/winter2019_og/cosplay.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---
“I’d just moved to Minneapolis, which was kind of where I didn’t want to
be, but also where it made the most sense, since I’d just gotten out of
this relationship with my first real boyfriend. I mean, there were dudes
before Owen, but none really like him. We did the whole young domestic
thing, renting a shitty little one-bedroom like three miles from his
parents; until I found out he was cheating on me with my best friend,
Nina.

“Then I moved in with my Aunt Jodie, who really didn’t have the room,
but didn’t mind that I was around most of the time. She was only
thirty-seven, but I swear that woman lost every desire to get laid when
she was sixteen. Three cats and she still spent most of her time
flipping through pictures on animal rescue sites.

“Anyway, I started at Leia’s Vault maybe two weeks after getting
settled. I’d never really read comics before, but was always drawing
weird doodles on napkins and post-its when I got bored. Leia introduced
me to so many of my favorites, but she got a little too fresh after
about a month, so I flipped and started at The Collection Pit.

“Those assholes knew so much more shit than I did, and they were always
acting like huge dicks, trying to flirt except they had no game. It was
funny watching them argue over the most mundane details, except they
called it super hero theory, like we were in fucking school or
something. I really never cared much about any of that mainstream shit
anyways. All these invulnerable hunks blowing shit up or chicks with
huge tits dying then coming back to life with even bigger jugs. Or it’s
like the same dumb character except they’re a hybrid of like four other
characters or some child of the old villain out for revenge, plus nobody
ever really ages unless it’s a parallel universe, and there are so many
of those. It’s goddamn impossible keeping track of who’s who, where or
whenever they are and why they’re doing what they need to for the good
of all mankind.”

“Or to speed up the process of our extinction,” Jeremiah said. “Do you
want another drink?”

I wasn’t sure if he was intrigued or merely humoring my origin story,
but I agreed to one more round. “Anyway, I’m still not sure who sent it,
since there was no return address. All the guys at The Pit denied it,
and what’s worse is I believed them since none of them had the best
poker face to begin with. I Facebook messaged Leia about it, and she
just acted like a bitch, so I don’t think it was her either.”

“That’s a bit strange.”

“I know, but it was brand new. Black leather, exactly my size, with a
typed note that said \#Cosplayordie. I didn’t know who was fucking with
me, but figured if I put it out there, then maybe I’d get some answers.”

“Mouse-gal isn’t much of a detective,” Jeremiah observed.

“Now you’re gonna give me shit?”

“Sorry.” He leaned his elbow against the bar. “Please continue.”

Behind Jeremiah’s mutton chops, a few posers in Space Trapper X gear
slapped each other’s asses and smiled with the flash on. “So I took a
selfie, and apparently it went over well with a few folks, mostly dumb
boys, but that’s a good percentage of my target audience for however
long I end up doing this.”

“Forever, right?” Jeremiah suggested.

“I’m not gonna look like this forever.”

“Plenty of characters out there for all ages and walks of life.”

“Just so long as your tits don’t sag too much for the general public.” I
was drunk enough to speak candidly, before realizing that even there,
amongst our people, nobody gave two fucks who we were.

“I guess that’s true.” Jeremiah forced a laugh. I stared at his teeth;
one on the bottom was crooked.

“Anyway, I was getting somewhere, wasn’t I?”

“We don’t have to get into it all now, if you don’t want to.”

“What?” I said. “Don’t you wanna hear how I ended up here in front of
you?”

“No, of course I do.”

“So there was that first selfie that maybe got me a hundred followers,
and then Tracy Lynn Rose shared my second and started following me. I
didn’t really know her deal, but we kept sharing and then messaging.
She got me on the guest list at Juju-Con, and from there shit got kind
of crazy. Every week is a new shoot and character. I get rando’s
messaging me all the time, telling me really sick shit, but you get used
to it. It becomes the only way of life, ya know?”

“I’m thinking of abandoning my social media presence altogether.”

I wasn’t sure why that was the line that did it for me. Maybe it had
been the day, standing in a convention center, freezing in knee-highs
and angel wings. It wasn’t necessarily Jeremiah’s portfolio; a generic
hodgepodge of four-part crossovers and mediocre gore that made a girl
wonder what kind of soul he had. I was still young enough to find out,
first venturing to his hotel room then moving to Chicago three weeks
later on a whim.

His apartment was smaller than expected; shelves full of coffee table
books with laser blasters on the cover. We both worked from home; him
doodling in the spare room while I posed on a new mattress or around our
small garden out back. The kink didn’t really come until about a month
in. Owen had been worse, far more domineering than Jeremiah, but sweeter
at the same time. It was strange, comparing the two while simultaneously
plotting any number of subsequent arrangements.

On a Sunday morning, he went out for bagels while I searched for a
needle and thread. His top desk drawer was a mess, pens and pencils
scattered amongst ticket stubs and feminist pins plucked from various
cons. I was about to close it when I noticed a pink post-it in the
corner, typed with blue ink. \#CosplayorDie. Opening the bottom drawer,
a few more sheets sat underneath bubble mailers and labels, then a list
of addresses and corresponding Instagram handles. All young females,
each with under five hundred followers.

Returning his supplies, I considered my next move, before sitting at the
kitchen table and impatiently awaiting his return. Breakfast usually
came later on the weekends.
