---
layout: posts
title: Drain Songs
description: Drain Songs by Grant Maierhofer reviewed by Matt Lee.
author: Matt Lee
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... This unpredictability is what makes Maierhofer so exciting to read. Strings of declarative statements written in all caps read like chaotic prose poems ...
date: 2019-06-11
issue: winter-2019
reviewer: true
writer: Grant Maierhofer
image: '/assets/img/winter2019_og/maierhofer.jpg'
width: 323
height: 499
---

Like the work of Grant Maierhofer, addiction takes many forms. There are
the typical vices—alcohol, drugs, gambling, sex—but otherwise innocuous
activities like exercise, dieting, or shopping can mutate into
compulsion just as easily, with the same damaging results. Writing
likewise can become a sort of addiction, accompanied by the requisite
highs and lows of substance abuse. In his latest book *Drain Songs*,
Maierhofer explores the complex relationship between art and addiction,
creating a kaleidoscopic meditation on dependency, chemical or
otherwise.

A collection of short stories capped by the titular novella, *Drain
Songs* is stylistically removed from the “ambient nonfiction” of
Maierhofer’s more experimental *Peripatet*, while still being formally
inventive in its own right. The novella “Drain Songs” in particular
consists of a dizzying array of narrative threads. Like David Markson’s
later work, the text often eschews narrative, addressing its own
self-awareness, “You are searching for something. Hence the assemblage.”
Maierhofer masterfully unites these elements into a singular treatise on
the cycle of addiction, recovery, relapse, and sobriety.

Some scenes depict the lives of infamous literary alcoholics and
addicts. John Berryman and his posthumous novel Recovery, for instance,
become a major touchstone, as does Jean Cocteau. Other sections feature
different speakers at AA or NA meetings. These monologues highlight
Maierhofer’s expert use of voice. Like the disparate fragments, each
speaker’s story is unique, every character’s diction given its own
special flavor. One such veteran of the rehab scene captures the humble
wisdom that accompanies years of addition, “‘I fail every day. That’s
the most useful thing I could tell you here tonight though. We wake up,
and we try, and we fail, and it’s alright.’”

Maierhofer’s command of language lends a propulsive momentum to the
text. Even though the structure is loose and free flowing, the book
never feels disjointed. I was swiftly carried along by the oftentimes
stream-of-consciousness passages, perfectly content to follow
Maierhofer’s words without the slightest clue where they were taking
me—“Is addiction literature worth a piss… A conspiracy… LSD-25… Opium…
The opioid crisis.” This unpredictability is what makes Maierhofer so
exciting to read. Strings of declarative statements written in all caps
read like chaotic prose poems. Italicized sections with winding run-on
sentences and odd syntax mirror the addict’s addled brain.

The effect is collage-like. I often felt as if I was reading a distorted
version of Al Anon’s Big Book. Indeed, there is a spiritual quality
present throughout the work, where God—like addiction—takes many shapes.
Maierhofer’s characters wrestle with the religious fervor accompanying
the bulk of recovery programs. They reject and embrace salvation in
equal measure, “The addict and the ever-present question of death, the
notion that we’re all working toward that one goal.” Some find solace in
literature, others in spirituality. All have chased annihilation.

I always appreciate authors who are themselves careful readers.
Maierhofer’s diverse reference points make clear he is a close study.
Writers, rappers, actors all cohabitate the space. Carl Jung and Eric
Clapton show up on the same page. These intertextual conversations trace
the lineage of artist as addict, highlighting oftentimes bizarre
intersections between high culture and the bleakest degradation. One
character quips what would make a fantastic tagline for the novella, “I
keep a copy of Sade next to my Big Book.”

Drain Songs is fiercely contemporary but still manages to hearken back
to the past. Modernists like Beckett and Joyce are present in the
narrative, and their influence is evident. Maierhofer seems to marry
Beckett’s off-kilter minimalism with Joyce’s buoyant maximalism. A
paragraph-length sentence is followed by a three-word sucker punch.
There is a careful balance to the text’s construction, even at its most
frenetic—“I WANT DEATH. I WANT ABJECTION. I WANT SORROW. I WANT PILLS. I
WANT WHINING. I WANT CONSTRUCTION SITES.”

The language is transcendent, at times both beautiful and grotesque,
steeped in a palpable sense of despair. The characters in these stories
are widely varied but equally miserable. “Lifers” follows a hedonistic
janitor, “Maintenance Art” a college professor on the verge of a nervous
breakdown. Despite their omnipresent darkness, the pieces maintain a
darkly comic quality. “Drain Songs” goes as far as to offer a glimmer of
hopefulness. Though straddling death’s precipice, the addict embodies
the tenacity of life. Addiction and recovery are consummate companions.
In this way, *Drain Songs* feels intensely personal, perhaps even
redemptive, the work of an author who has lived many of the experiences
about which he writes.

Published by FC2, the long-standing bulwark of innovative and
unconventional fiction, Maierhofer’s work evokes that of the criminally
under read Ronald Sukenick, who was a founder of the original Fiction
Collective. Sukenick lamented the rigid politics of the literary
establishment, dedicating his career to destabilizing these [*lines of
authority*](http://www.flashpointmag.com/sukeint1.htm){:target="_blank"}. He sought ways
to liberate readers, creating texts that defied the stuffy dogma of
capital-L Literature. Maierhofer is one of a few active writers
continuing this subversive tradition. *Drain Songs* does not present
itself as a conventional short story collection and should not be
treated as such. Maierhofer, like Sukenick, challenges us to read
differently.

Maierhofer himself has
[*spoken*](http://numerocinqmagazine.com/2017/07/14/conversation-grant-maierhofer-interview-german-sierra/){:target="_blank"}
of his affinity for Dennis Cooper’s masterpiece of the transgressive,
the George Miles Cycle. *Drain Songs* is apparently part of Maierhofer’s
own attempt at a series of interconnected books, following 2016’s
excellent *Flamingos*. That Maierhofer’s output has been so prolific is
a blessing for those of us entrenched in the literary underground.
*Drain Songs* marks another essential addition to the catalogue of
American experimental fiction. Purchase your copy
[*here*](http://www.uapress.ua.edu/product/Drain-Songs,7316.aspx){:target="_blank"}.
