---
layout: posts
title: The Dead Grandmother Essay
description: A nonfiction piece by Erik Anderson - The Dead Grandmother Essay
author: Erik Anderson
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... Many, if not most, writing students have to produce a version of The Dead Grandmother Essay. It’s almost a rite of passage ...
date: 2019-06-06
issue: winter-2019
image: '/assets/img/winter2019_og/grandmother.jpg'
width: 640
height: 427
---
In my line of work, I meet a lot of dead grandmothers. Mostly they’re
saintly, but occasionally they’re late to parties. Sometimes they’re
self-absorbed or frivolous or extraneous or a burden. But whether
revered or resented, it’s always a wretched experience to recall their
turkey meatballs or sympathetic ears, to wade through the muck of what
one should have said or done before it was too late.

The Dead Grandmother Essay is a subgenre of its own, an outgrowth of a
creative writing classroom in which I encourage students to write about
things that matter to them at a time in their lives when many are not
entirely sure what does. The Dead Grandmother Essay offers a way to
strike some deep notes, to practice gravity without succumbing to it.
The Dead Grandmother was bound to die, after all, and in that way is not
at all like The Dead Mother or Father, who elicits an entirely different
kind of essay. The Dead Grandmother is usually safe in a way that the
Dead Mother or Father is not, but it is also this safety—the remove from
any immediate vulnerability—that means the Dead Grandmother will
primarily be an exercise, a vehicle for testing certain registers, to
see how they align with your range. Sometimes the product is moving, but
more often it tries to be moving and fails.

Failure isn’t such a bad thing, however, and because the student writer
is learning her craft, because few students have hitched their lives to
writing, the stakes of failure are usually low. Causing a disinterested
reader to care about the qualities of your Dead Grandmother’s macaroni
salad, moreover, or failing to, doesn’t mean that you’ll be able to
bring a reader to care about other things in the future. Writing, like
all art, is practical: you learn, or don’t learn, by doing.

For my part, I much prefer The Dead Grandmother Essay to some of its
fellows. Consider the Big Game Essay, in which a young person recounts
the glories of winning the state championship, learning to love squash,
or walking on to the college’s field hockey team. These essays may have
all of the commas in the right places, they may even have a compelling
structure, but they rarely intrigue and, injuries notwithstanding, they
never bruise. The narrating persona is generally the hero of the Big
Game Essay, and conflict tends to be situational. The stakes may seem to
be high, but the Big Game Essay erects an almost insurmountable barrier
between the reader and the writer’s vulnerabilities. The centrality of a
ball, even when it’s shaped liked a puck, is a giveaway: we are in
diversionary territory. Life happens outside of the marked field or
court, not within it, and so it’s difficult for such essays to channel
or simulate necessity in the manner of the Dead Grandmother.

Because the point of The Dead Grandmother Essay isn’t the Dead
Grandmother, it doesn’t actually need to be about a Dead Grandmother,
much less a Dead Grandfather, although it needs to take place in her
vicinity in ways that the Dead Father or Big Game Essays do not: close,
but not too close, to the bone. It probably goes without saying that The
Dead Grandmother Essay doesn’t even need to be an essay. I’m certain
that fiction writers and poets are aware of corresponding,
genre-specific versions. Many, if not most, writing students have to
produce a version of The Dead Grandmother Essay. It’s almost a rite of
passage.

Born in 1931, my own grandmother recently turned eighty-eight, but she
had spent much of the previous year in and out of the hospital. She has
a thirty-year-old artificial heart valve that should have failed years
ago. The blood thinners she takes to keep her body functioning have
complicated her chronic diverticulitis, leading to a couple of episodes
in which it appeared she might bleed out through her rectum. Aging is
one thing, but old age is another, and as my parents report from their
home in Michigan, having just returned from another visit to the
emergency room, my grandmother is a very old woman.

Her death, when it comes, will be a mixed blessing. She has had a
difficult, in many ways unenviable life, and her relationship with my
parents, her primary caregivers, has often been strained. And yet for
all of us her death will represent the end of a generation, the last of
a set of old bulwarks against time. Her death will mean that my own
parents, along with the entire boomer generation, will now be on the
frontlines. Barring any unforeseen catastrophes, they will be the next
to go. My proximity to death may seem to increase, or accelerate.

My grandmother has done many of the things one expects of grandmothers.
She has made me meals I didn’t particularly enjoy before sending me home
with leftovers. She has given me token amounts of money at irregular
intervals. As a kid, I remember her hosting my brother and me while our
parents went away, and I remember these visits, perhaps unfairly, as
frosty. I will likely remember her, on balance, as a cold person, bitter
and ungenerous. I don’t relish that admission, but it would be untrue to
pretend my experience of her was something it wasn’t. She has often been
unkind and manipulative, and after she has died I won’t be able to wash
that impression from my mind.

For most people in her life, she has been difficult to love. She and my
grandfather were married, to each other, three times over the course of
their lives together, and much of my father’s particular blend of
neuroses was forged during those years when, as a small child, the
family was careening from one fight to the next. My own Dead Grandmother
Essay, were I to write one, would require me to situate my grandmother’s
life in my own, to identify the through line that connects those fights
to the sense of inadequacy that accompanied me from childhood to middle
age. My Dead Grandmother Essay would have to establish my feelings *for*
her in the feelings I received *from* her, however indirectly. In order
to speak about her, and about her death, I would first need to identify
which parts of myself were affected.

This is the lesson of Vivian Gornick’s essential book, *The Situation
and the Story*: to know *why* you’re speaking you must know *who* is
speaking. I’m not sure the *who* always comes before the *why*, that
persona always precedes purpose, but I think Gornick is right that the
two are connected. To know why my grandmother’s death might affect me, I
need to know who I am in relation to her, and it’s also true that to
know who I am, I need to know why she matters. It’s more of a dance than
cause and effect.

But this is a Dying Grandmother Essay, not a Dead Grandmother Essay. She
remains a moving target, one I have loved with filial affection, in
spite of her flaws. She is an active presence in whom I see many of the
traits she passed down to my father. He has her eyes, for instance, and
as he ages I see, far more than his father’s, dead for most of my life,
her face in his. Like her, he has always been sharp-witted and
perceptive. Her speech, like his, and like mine, sometimes conceals
subtle barbs. All of us are, to varying degrees, both pleasant and
prickly, although we hide the latter well.

And therein lies the dilemma: a dying grandmother is not as safe as a
dead one. There are risks involved in writing about her. It’s unlikely
she will ever read this essay, but theoretically she could, as could my
father, whom I have unflatteringly compared to his mother. Either could
take offense. Feelings could be hurt. Ties could fray. And for me
there’s always the danger of recognizing something in myself I don’t
want to see, some tendency that marks me as one of them, perhaps a worse
version. For surely neither would be as callous and untoward as to take
as a subject, almost facetiously, the impending death of a family
member. Neither would be as mercenary and cynical.

Such risks are generally missing from the Dead Grandmother Essay. It
isn’t true that the dead can’t hurt us, but it is true that we can’t
hurt them. In speaking about them, we are never speaking to them. We
shout or whisper as into a void.

The possibility of damage is almost a precondition of creation, which
isn’t the same as saying that damage is an inevitable outcome, nor that
benefits are directly proportional to risks, some of which, I would
argue, aren’t worth taking—the costs would be too much, socially or
psychologically. The thing the Dead Grandmother cannot teach you, even
if it sets you on your way to learning it, is the difference between the
risks worth taking and the risks not worth taking.

The writer’s work, James Baldwin argues, must be unconcerned with
personal advantage. Or, as I once heard Kristin Dombek say, we cannot be
the heroes of our own essays. The truth, Baldwin writes, “*is* a
two-edged sword—and if one is not willing to be pierced by that sword,
even to the extreme of dying on it, then all of one’s intellectual
activity is a masturbatory delusion and a wicked and dangerous fraud.”

Beginning writers are almost never willing to die on the sword of their
truths, nor should they be. There will be plenty of time for that later,
when they’ve assembled enough self to withstand the effects. The process
of producing one’s first efforts as a writer, especially in the context
of a classroom, is often delusional and fraudulent and even
self-gratifying. It’s rarely wicked or treacherous, though. As a
fantasy, it’s productive and pedagogical: *imagine* you were writing
your truth—what would that look like? What subjects would it involve,
what stories? From which aspects of your life would it proceed?

At the moment my grandmother lives on the top floor of an old hotel
built in 1925 and converted into a retirement home a half-century later.
When I visited my parents a few weeks back, she asked over dinner to
come to church with me the following day to hear my parents sing in the
choir. She wanted to spend time together, she said, and afterward we
could all have lunch at the hospital cafeteria, where the three of them
apparently like to go. It’s quiet, they said, and has a good salad bar.

I hadn’t been to a service in maybe fifteen years, and my
grandmother—despite her fondness for my parents’ lesbian minister—has
always been skeptical of the Episcopalian tradition, so the two of us
sat in the last pew, observing more than participating. Neither of us
wanted to partake in communion, and kneeling would have been out of the
question for her. But at one point she turned to ask whether I attended
church at home, and when I said I didn’t she asked, either out of
curiosity or concern, whether I had faith. I gave a verbal shrug,
something like an *eh* pressed through clenched teeth. I’d so enjoyed
her company the night before, drinking wine and laughing about the
cafeteria—which I vetoed, incidentally—that I’d forgotten she knew how
to shame, as do I.

After church, we ate sandwiches in her apartment, in which all signs of
the old hotel had been renovated out of recognition. We drank premixed
margaritas, and the flowers I’d brought for her birthday—the purples and
pinks she prefers—sat in a vase on the counter. Would this be the last
time I saw her, I wondered, as I’ve wondered each time I’ve seen her in
recent years. And what sort of grandson had I been? I had never felt it
necessary to fill the holes in her life, to give her, except in small
doses, the love she feels the world has denied her. I accepted long ago
the notion that she would die a lonely, unhappy death, and that this has
been at least partially her fault. She has always seemed tragic to me in
ways she has cultivated but also been oblivious to. I don’t envy her,
but I suspect she means more to me in life than she ever will in death.

As I hugged her that day, her body was frail, her embrace weak, but she
filled my pockets with miniature candy bars I wouldn’t eat. We would be
back next summer, I said—we would see her then. I didn’t know if it was
true.
