---
layout: posts
title: 2 Stories
description: 2 short stories by Stephen Mortland
author: Stephen Mortland
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... The father looks at the creeping hand ...
date: 2022-04-01
issue: spring-2022
image: '/assets/img/spring2022_og/mortland.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---

## An Enviable Marriage

When he arrives home, there is the general flourishing of
event---nothing excessive, perhaps some combination of children stopping
and turning and rushing the door, or voices calling from separate rooms,
or the leaping of the dog, or the door, when it closes, latching in a
satisfactory way, the sealing of the gasket and the crisp click of the
latch. When he walks into the kitchen, there are the children who sit,
doing their maths, at the table, who look up and see the face of their
father, their cheeks softening, their lips parting as if prepared for
greeting, as if wordlessly ready for the approach of the father. When he
sets his briefcase on the chair and lays his jacket over his arm, he
sighs a contented sigh, extending his neck, rolling his head, his chest
flexing and testing the buttons of his shirt. The kitchen is pink with
light, pink countertops and the sun, not yet set, coming through the
open door leading to the veranda. When the woman from outside steps into
the kitchen through the open door, the children turn their faces to her,
smiling as if sweetly as if now we are all here. Oh, hello, says the
father to the woman who has come into the kitchen. But the woman who has
come into the kitchen is not the mother of the children, doesn't seem to
be the mother, she is a woman standing barefoot on the linoleum. She is
wearing a fine blouse, pink with ruffles around the neck and around the
cuffs of her sleeves. She is looking at the father, she is looking at
his eyes. The children smile back and forth, looking at the woman and
looking back to the father. I'm sorry, says the father. There must be a
mistake, says the father. He meant to say a misunderstanding---there
must be a misunderstanding---but he said mistake instead. He only now
notices the woman's hand, her left hand, which is on top of the table
and inching forward. Her left hand is sliding across the surface of the
table in a slow, spiderly fashion, even as the woman herself remains
fixed, looking at the face of the father. The father looks at the
creeping hand. The woman looks at the father. The children look to the
woman and then to the father. The woman begins to tilt, tugged at the
shoulder by the hand, which continues easing its way across the surface
of the table. Finally, the woman's hand reaches the fruit basket. She
moves from fruit to fruit---from apple to kiwi to peach and peach. The
children have returned to their maths. The kitchen is pink with light.
The woman's hand settles on a peach, squeezing its soft flesh firmly.
Looking at the father, she widens her eyes, she tightens her lips. The
father lays his jacket on the pink countertop, he takes a step forward,
he grabs her by the wrist.

<figure class="my-5 py-3">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/seperator.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

## Hymn #1

If, then, when my world ends, I will look back, I will think about the
way she was with her arms spread out, and that her world too, has ended,
is ending, may soon end, and every bit of loving her was also pain and
sadness, was also the world ending by means of little crawlies under the
skin, over the skin, little crawlies working their way in through nose
holes, eyeholes, ear holes, assholes, little crawlies dirtying us under
our skins, our world ending because of them even though we could not see
them, and is there anything more humiliating than this? Where are the
bangs! The pops! The cold of the steel against my forehead as I tremble,
and tremble, and beg, and praise life, and tell the man, this wicked
wicked man how good I have it, how good we all have it, tell this wicked
wicked man to live and let me live, tell this wicked man that I won't
spill the beans, won't tell a soul, that he can do to me all the wicked
things he's done and wants still to do and no one will know, only he and
I will know and we will hold it to ourselves and go on living out there
in the beautiful beautiful world and then POP! I am down, but still not
gone, still a weak thread, trickle trickle out in pool of blood, halo of
blood, beautiful and red and so so VISIBLE, the inside part of me
OUTSIDE for the world to see, would this not be better, so much better,
than little invisible crawlies making me diseased, making me like some
petri dish of slime, of goop, of bloody, red red goop that no one sees
as these crawlies do their bathings and their nasties in my red red
blood? If, then, when my world is ending there is no flashing in the
sky, no fire in the trees, if, then, there is no weeping and gnashing
and regretting and whatcouldhavebeens, if we are not getting high
together, not getting drunk together, not getting FUCKEDUP because the
world is ending, and it is, instead, only me, only me and I am only sad,
confused, secretly FUCKEDUP but not on drink and drug, FUCKEDUP on
thinking that she is there staring at me, staring at my flushed face,
looking, maybe, at my hands on some white sheet, thinking that my hands
on that white sheet are so still, are dead already, that beneath the
skin on those hands are little green tubes of red red blood with those
crawlies feasting, eating away at the will of my hands to look not so
plastic, not so placid, sickly flaccid hands, humiliating my fingers
flat and at peace like I am very much not, resting on the blanket, and
she is looking at them as I lie and wait and wait and then (popless,
bangless...sizzzzzzle) I am gone and she will still be there and she
will still be looking and I will not know and the crawlies will keep
their feasting, not knowing, not caring what becomes of me. So Glory,
Glory, Halllllelujah, if then, my world to end, arms all windwhipped
down and down tumbling from the top of this or that cusp, head over
heels and the only advice left is to dig a hole and make it deep and let
the sun be blotted out and let the sky turn red red and the nations rage
and rend your garments and douse yourself with ashes and listen for the
trumpet for the breaking of the seals the rising of the waters the
frothing of your blood the stars and planets falling tumbling down and
down to take her in a quick embrace and look her in the eyes and feel
the life pulsing through your living fingers your clenching flexing
fingers and wind your neck around her neck to the rhythm of those
cantering horsemen as you mimic that manyheaded beast and tumble down
and down and make your bed in the depths where there is nothing but the
presence of God.
