---
layout: posts
title: Place de Stalingrad
description: Place de Stalingrad by D. A. Hosek
author: D. A. Hosek
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... I'm not foolish enough to think that I would be able to sell real art ...
date: 2022-04-05
issue: spring-2022
image: '/assets/img/spring2022_og/hosek.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---

Robert's project at *Place de Stalingrad* was the most monumental work
we'd seen of his. There was no claim of *paternité* on the artwork to
identify it as Robert's which made it all the clearer that it was his
work.

Jack and I spent hours exploring what he had done, the chalk lines,
curves and shapes filling the entire space from one graffiti'd wall to
the other. Taken as a whole, it was gloriously abstract, colors
interacting in a way that almost felt like looking at something in
motion. Then, at every level as you came closer, it transformed itself,
revealing new abstractions that became representations that became
abstractions again. "It's like that math thing the computer graphics guy
at IHEAP was always going on about---fractures," Jack said.

"I think it was fractals."

"Whatever, this is pure genius."

I walked closer to the fountain in the center of the plaza and noticed
another detail in Robert's artwork. "Jack, take a look at this." He came
over. "Check out this pattern, it seems abstract at first but then you
realize that it's communist hammers and sickles turning into airplanes
turning into crucifixes."

Jack nodded as he inspected what I had found. "And over here, the
airplanes are dropping bombs."

"Man, old *Professeur* Maurin could write a whole book deconstructing
the meaning of all this."

"And to think none of these people have the slightest idea what they're
walking over." We looked up to see the drug dealers lurking in the
shadows as the bourgeoisie on their way to the MK2 cinemas on the banks
of the Bassin de Villete ignore the black teenagers practicing their
raps in the open air. Occasionally someone saw us studying the pavement
and looked down themselves, but even those few who did, didn't pause
long.

"I wonder if you can get up to the roof of the rotunda somehow. I bet
there's a whole other dimension if you could just somehow see the whole
thing at once," I said.

Jack looked over at the rotunda and shook his head. "It's a pity it's
going to rain tonight."

We tried to take in as much of Robert's masterpiece as we could last
night while it still existed, forgetting about our original plan to go
out for Algerian food to celebrate an especially good day selling
artwork from our stalls in the plaza at Montmartre.

The next morning, all that remained were puddles of water colored with
dissolved chalk. An occasional line or curve lingered, but it only made
us sad to see it.

"All that work just---gone," Jack said.

"Robert had to know it was going to rain last night and wash it all
away."

"That's what makes it so crazy---and so Robert. It couldn't have been
there more than a day or so, we'd have seen it. He did it knowing it
would disappear not long after he made it. I wish we'd taken photos."

An explanation is in order. Robert, Jack and I all met as art students
at IHEAP. We recognized each other as the only Americans at the school
with any talent and quickly formed our own clique. We rented an attic
garret in the Left Bank and moved in together. Our garret had two rooms
not counting the bathroom---the entirety of which doubled as the
shower---or the miniature kitchen with its abbreviated refrigerator and
two-burner stove. We built a three-tiered bunk bed so we could share the
single tiny bedroom between us. The not much larger living room, with
its surprisingly good natural light, became our shared studio.

We learned French. We ate baguettes and cheese. We became better
artists.

And we ran out of student loan money.

With an unpayable bill from IHEAP, we faced the prospect of returning to
the US and giving up our Parisian existence. We took another route: we
became illegal immigrants. We lived in the underground cash economy like
the African refugees who became our neighbors after we gave up our Left
Bank garret. Well, Jack's and my neighbors. Robert didn't agree with our
plan to support ourselves by making art for the tourists and disappeared
to follow his own path. We rarely saw him and when we did, he looked
haggard and worn. We were sure he was living on the streets, feeding
himself who knows how and obtaining the supplies to create his art by
even more mysterious means.

When we saw Robert's artwork it was something simple and public: a
splash of abstract colored designs on the plywood covering a broken
window or an exquisitely decorated box kite deliberately crashed into
the high branches of a tree in the city park. It was all anonymous, but
indisputably Robert's work.

The morning at Montmartre is slow. The rain has redirected the tourists
towards indoor activities and they finally emerge into the open air in
the afternoon when the rain has dissipated. First the locals, then the
continental tourists, followed by the British and finally, when there's
no danger of the rain returning, the Americans.

It's embarrassing to be an American living in another country. My
compatriots tend to be loud, clumsy and oblivious to their ostentatious
*mauvais ton*.

"Par-lay voo English?" he asks.

"*Oui*," I say. "A lee-tle." If the tourist is going to buy anything,
he'll want to believe he's buying from a genuine Parisian *artiste*.

"OK, good. Cuanto---how much is this painting?"

*Cuanto*? My God, this guy is an idiot. "Thees, eet ees, how you say,
seventy euro."

"Seventy?"

Have I started too high? I usually gauge budgets better but I'm still
thinking about Robert's artwork at Place de Stalingrad. How much would
that be worth---assuming that there was some way for it to be sold? More
than seventy. More than any of the crap I have on offer.

"I want some ice cream." I notice for the first time the American kid
standing next to him. Pimply face, obligatory tourist beret, egg-shaped
physique. If there's one thing this kid doesn't need, it's ice cream.

"OK, Eliot," the American says. "I think I saw a place around the
corner."

I'm about to lose a sale. On a day like today when the tourists are hard
to come by, that's not a good thing. "*Monsieur*," I call out to him.
"Ees seventy euro but for you I make spay-shal prahz. You like eet for
seexty?"

The American looks back at the painting for a moment, shrugs and walks
away without a word.

Once he's out of sight, Jack comes up to me and starts in, "'*Oui*, a
lee-tle.'"

"*Détends-toi*," I answer. "We don't want to scare off the tourists."

"You're doing a good enough job of that on your own."

"I'm just having a crappy day."

"Have you sold anything today?"

"Nope, what about you?"

"Three portraits. It would've been four if this one guy hadn't decided
he didn't like what I drew and left without paying." He shows me a
picture of an overweight man with shaved head, sunglasses and a long
goatee. A wannabe biker gang member, but in reality, more likely an
accountant or something else ordinary.

"*Merde*, if I looked like that, I wouldn't pay either."

I return to what I've been trying to paint, *Sacre-Cœur* in
impressionistic colors and brushstrokes, but I've got little more than
an outline of the dome and some blue marks that I want to scrape off the
canvas and pretend I never made. I'm using somebody else's style to
paint something I don't care about.

A pair of tourists walks by. The husband, with the usual American
assumption that English is an exotic language spoken by no one outside
the boundaries of the U.S., guides his wife past me saying, "Not this
one. I bet he has someone else doing his painting---just look at that
canvas and tell me he's an artist."

I want badly to turn around to the American husband and tell him in my
own native English free of faux accent that he's right, I'm not an
artist. I'm only a pretender. I don't.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

"What are we doing out there every day, Jack?" I ask at day's end as we
ride packed into the metro back to our apartment.

"We're making art."

"No. We're making kitsch for tourists."

"Fine, it's not capital-A art, but would you rather be working in some
office somewhere?"

"Maybe, at least then I'd have a steady income and maybe enough energy
left to do actual art at the end of the day."

"Hey, I *enjoy* what I do. Sure, I could go back to America and draw
cartoons for sappy greeting cards or illustrate advertisements for
Chinese toys and do real art in the evening but then what?"

"What do you mean, 'but then what'?"

"I mean, right now, I'm at least choosing what I'm creating and
people---granted they're mostly idiots---*pay* me for my work. I'm not
foolish enough to think that I would be able to sell *real* art. Nobody
wants that."

"Some people do."

"Not in our experience. I've seen what happens to your occasional
efforts towards doing *real* art. It sits in your bin until you end up
tossing it or painting over it. And my attempts, well, if we had a cat,
we'd have lining the litter box covered."

My ears burn at Jack's critique.

"Look," Jack says. "There just aren't enough people out there who want
art. I'd say that there are probably more people out there who want to
*be* artists than who want to *support* art. And most of the ones that
*think* they're supporting art are the ones who go on vacation to Paris
and bring home our crap as a souvenir. Maybe they hang it on the wall
when they get home, but more likely it ends up in the back of a closet
until they toss it or give it to Goodwill. You think I don't realize
that most of my portraits that I sell will get tossed before the
tourists go home?"

"You can't really see it as dark as that."

"You're right, I see it darker. This is the only way I'm going to do the
art that I choose. I have the autonomy to make these portraits the way I
want to make them. If I go back home and get a day job, well, you know
what happens eventually: that energy you have at the end of the day
begins to vanish because nobody wants art. So, you give your energy to
creating a hundred and one variations on Bucky the Naked Mole Rat for
the latest ad campaign until eventually you can retire and spend your
days watching TV and never picking up a pencil or a paintbrush again.
That's why I'm happy enough with what we're doing. It may not be
Art-with-a-Capital-A, but it's not Bucky the Naked Mole Rat either. Or
would you rather end up like Robert, making the art that you want but
being homeless and living on the street?"

In the weeks that follow, I regain myself enough to make and sell my
paintings from my stall in Montmartre. I've squelched the desire to make
"real" art that surfaced after that night at *Place de Stalingrad*.

One day I'm walking along the Seine where the vendors have their stalls
along the quay on the left bank across from Notre Dame. One bookseller
has an abstract drawing in colored pencil offered for sale. It's
unmistakably Robert's work. When I ask the vendor about it, he tells me
the artist gave it to him in exchange for a book that sat unsold in his
box for months. The drawing has been no more luck appealing to the
passersby. He offers it to me for a Euro and when I hesitate, he hands
it to me and tells me to take it, *gratis*.
