---
layout: posts
title: Solanum Tuberosum
description: A short story by Salvatore Difalco â€“ Solanum Tuberosum
author: Salvatore Difalco
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... I refrigerated a bag of new potatoes ...
date: 2022-04-13
issue: spring-2022
image: '/assets/img/spring2022_og/difalco.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---

I refrigerated a bag of new potatoes. But potatoes last longer in warmer
temperatures. I did not know this. After a week, the potatoes turned
into a fetid poss. I threw them out and called my girlfriend, Deb. Deb,
I said, how's it going? I'm okay, she said. What do you want? I asked if
she wanted to hang out or go for a bite to eat, I knew a new Mexican
joint on the Danforth, El Sol. The owners hailed from Guadalajara and
made the real article, none of that Tex-Mex crap. It always bloats me
like a buffalo. Not the real stuff, though. You eat and eat---no small
portions there---and walk out feeling as light as you were when you
entered. I'm in the middle of something, my girlfriend said, and
disconnected. I looked at my cellphone with disbelief. Third time she
had hung up on me that week. What gives? I thought. I made myself coffee
and drank it by the bay window. Black squirrels leaped from the branches
of the tall maple in front of my house. I did not find them adorable.
And yet I let them be. Life is so funny, I thought. To be laughed at,
yes. But also funny as in odd. Life is odd. Why am I here? What's the
reason for it? Surely I was engendered for a reason, though it strains
me to think of one that would satisfy my ontological longings. Perhaps
the reason for my existence will yet be revealed. That said, I continued
making so many mistakes I doubted how useful I would be for any purpose.
Deb had been distant, and this sat in the back of my head like a tiny
man in a black suit. Would I be tearing out my hair soon, or weeping in
the streets? Did I love Deb that much? It was difficult to say. A knock
at my door made me jump and spill some coffee on the carpet. Who the
fuck is it? I cried. Just your mother, said a voice. My mother? My
mother never dropped by unexpectedly. What was her deal? Ma, I said,
funny to see you. Funny? she said. What's funny? Help me with these
bags. Come on. Don't be so bloody useless. I helped her with her lumpy
brown bags, wondering what they contained. Fruit, she said. Bought a
bunch of melons and grapefruits. They were marked down at Ziggy's. Why
didn't you call me? I asked, but she waved a hand. I asked if she wanted
a coffee, I had just made some. I'm tired, she said. I can't do this
anymore. You should've called, I said. And you should be married with
kids right now, she said, not living like a monk. What's the matter with
you? Is this how I raised you? I've been here two minutes and I'm
already choking on the dust. Do you want a cantaloupe? Or grapefruit? I
think I got more than I can eat before they go bad. Take a cantaloupe.
Ma, I said, I don't want a cantaloupe. You know I don't like them. She
knew I didn't like cantaloupe or grapefruit. Had she offered me any
other fruit I would have wrung her hands with gratitude. How about that
coffee? I said. She nodded and I fixed her a cup in the kitchen. She
only took sugar, and insisted on three teaspoons full or she wouldn't
drink it. She joined me in the kitchen, took the cup, and blew on it
before she sipped. She wore a black knit sweater over her black dress.
She had been wearing black since my father passed away ten years ago.
She had stopped dying her hair and it had turned a smoky grey that made
her look like an old woman, even though she's just turned sixty-five.
Did you happen to grab some potatoes? I asked and she looked at me
blankly. I had bought some, I said, but I put them in the fridge and
they went bad. What? she said. They went bad in the fridge. You're a
chooch, she said. I know, I said.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

My mother finished her coffee and told me she had to get going. I hadn't
driven since my D.U.I. last Christmas, so I asked if she wanted me to
call her a cab, even though she only lived a couple blocks away. I can
walk, she said, I'm not done in yet. I don't feel great, but I still
have some fight, son. Don't you forget it. I won't, I said. What about
all the fruit? You're going to carry it? That's why I was hoping you at
least take a cantaloupe, or a honeydew. I only picked up one honeydew
but you can have it. At last I took the honeydew, which I could tolerate
if not too ripe, and walked her to the door. I kissed her cheeks and she
patted my chest. Keep an eye on that heart of yours, she said. I was
going to ask her what she meant by that but thought better of it. I
quickly called Deb back. Hey, I said I forgot to tell you. Look, she
said, you have to stop calling me. We talked about this last week. You
said you'd give me some space. You're not giving me much space by
calling me every fifteen minutes. I experienced some kind of seizure of
the lungs at that moment and burst into a cold sweat. Deb had already
hung up on me; I dropped the cellphone to the floor. I staggered to the
sofa and threw myself down, panting and sweating like a beast. Of
course, I thought, I haven't been listening to her. I haven't been
listening to her at all. I hadn't respected her request for space. Had I
respected her wishes, perhaps this knife wound in my heart would not
exist. But I had proved annoying, even creepy, and I had to live with it
now, the realization that no matter what I did, I would never win back
Deb's favours, that I would forever be that guy, that guy who would not
leave her alone, who even after she told him to cease and desist he
persisted without a moment's consideration for her feelings. I went to
the bathroom and splashed my face with cold water. I looked at myself
and realized that I had grown nauseatingly ugly in a matter of a few
weeks. My eyes bulged; my cheeks were florid and blemished, my nose
pocked and distended, and my lips like a scabby slit in my face. My hair
tufted out from the sides of my hair like a mad scientist's. I hadn't
shaved in weeks and as my beard was scant, sparse whiskers added to my
deranged and dissolute appearance. For a moment I considered plucking
out my eyes like Saint Lucia and putting them on a platter as she did,
though I didn't suffer from untenable and uncontainable lust. My libido
had long ago boarded a bus to the county of Abstinence. Another knock at
my door took me by even greater surprise than the first. This time I
answered prepared to scold whomever it was, for disrupting my
self-wallowing, which can be soothing if you let it. Ma, I said upon
seeing standing there again, bearing lumpy brown bags. What's this? I
said. I went home and dropped off the fruit then I went back to the
grocery store and bought you some potatoes. Don't put them in the fridge
this time. Store them in your pantry, and keep them in the paper bags so
they don't get eyes. See how smooth these are? I don't think I've seen
such perfect potatoes. They were nice, I thought. You didn't have to do
that, Ma, I said. I know, she said, I know. She set the bags down and
plucked a large potato from one of them. Look how gorgeous it is, she
said, holding up the potato and turning it this way and that. It's a
Yukon Gold, I said. Is that what it is? she said, her eyes shining in
the glow of the beautiful tuber.
