---
layout: posts
title: The Runner
description: The Runner by Nicholas C. Moore Jr.
author: Nicholas C. Moore Jr.
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... As he rose, his legs trembled beneath him. A trickle of red was coming from a canyon in his knee. ...
date: 2022-04-14
issue: spring-2022
image: '/assets/img/spring2022_og/moore-jr.jpg'
width: 640
height: 426
---

The runner shivered in the heat. The sun was high and the sky was blue
and the air was hot and heavy and only sometimes redeemed by a low
breeze which rolled over the cove, toward the marsh beyond. On the
shoreline, shells blistered in the sand. Bathers stretched out beneath
striped umbrellas while, in an inlet to the south east made grotto by
piled up, tide-worn stones, some had left their suits behind. He could
see them from way-up there on the hill. He watched as four figures went
bounding into the cool-green tide, as their lithe bodies disappeared in
little white blooms of surf and foam. With great effort, he turned away.

He could not recall how long he had been there or, even, the explicit
circumstance of his fall. It was all glazed over, burned out---all the
moisture had been taken from the thing, leaving it as it was *without.*
He wondered, for a moment, which was more real: a nourished thing or
something boiled to its essence. For a moment, he decided on the latter,
but then he felt the need to stand. As he rose, his legs trembled
beneath him. A trickle of red was coming from a canyon in his knee. He
etched the outline of the thing with quaking fingers, feeling the
contour as it ran in a slant toward the soft flesh on the inside of his
thigh.

The hill rolled into the marsh which bordered a pleasant cove. He could
see, at their moorings, little skiffs which bobbed up and down. They
were rocked, he observed, as if by an invisible hand. He watched with
delight as a little white sailboat, boasting a red stripe, bobbed in
perfect rhythm with the rise and fall of his chest. On the other side of
the hill, beyond the marsh, there were pines and scrub pines and oaks
and a few beeches. Over the green, between the swaying peaks, he could
see a steeple and, further still to the West, a clock tower in the
distance. There was a trail headed in that direction; there was a trail
that went down the hill and through the marsh and toward the steeple and
the clock tower beyond. He could see it before him: a gash in the fine
summer grasses and an unbroken line of stones and dust that had been
tramped into existence by so many, for so long.

Without really thinking, he had begun to walk. His legs shook and his
knee bled but he walked in a daze away from town, he walked slowly
toward the cove across the marsh, at the bottom of the hill. From the
tidal streams which flowed into the cove from the north, two came
sailing in a little green boat that had been built before the last great
war.

The two had not spoken honestly for the whole day. If they had, she
would\'ve come to know the trust in his arms and he would've understood
why they called it lying *with* a woman. She watched, from the bow, as
he let out the sheet tenderly, as he let the sail luff, as he savored
every moment. He, from the stern, looked bashfully while pretending to
scan the horizon or read the wind, as he tried to wordlessly convince
that his glances were of duty, necessary, important. They sat in
silence. He was too nervous to comment on the band of green silk she had
tied around her head. She was too afraid to tell him about the bottle of
wine she had bought for him, for them, to share. They kept on, their
little craft beating on and toward the shore.

In the reeds, on the backside of the dunes to the east which protected
the little cove from the wild sea beyond, a father and child waded. The
child, Lucy, was no older than six and she had bright red cheeks and
puffy white palms and two golden pigtails which streamed out from her
bucket hat on either end. Behind her, not far away, her father watched
over her. His eyes were wide and glistening as Lucy combed through tide
pools, as she oohed and ahed at fiddler crabs darting across sun
bleached quahog shells or rehydrated mermaid's purses. She giggled as
minnows darted around her pink calves. Her pudgy toes sank in the thick
sand. For Lucy, the colors of the world were as bright as they had ever
been. For her father, each tidepool was a salt-wracked mirror in which,
for years to come, he would see the smiling face of his young daughter.
He would try, for the rest of his life, to see the world as she saw it.

On the southern shore, where there are boats tied up and beached by the
receding tide, an old man dug, with a clam rake, through the silty
bottom: where the marsh met the long beginnings of the Earth's
foundation. He pushed and pulled with the rake's cast iron teeth,
feeling the stutter, ding and jilt as it went skipping over quahogs
lounging in the shady sand beneath the surface. The old man thought
about the joy of a clam, what it would be like to rest and relax down
there, what it would be like to lie on your back on the cool sea floor
and watch as the earth turned through the glass-green water above you.
He had, at one point in his life, been a sailor. He had, at one point in
his life, met fire and combustion which sent him, screaming, overboard,
but when he opened his eyes there was nothing but the sun coming through
the water. All is quiet under sea---flak guns were far, far away.

The runner stumbled over a piece of driftwood as his sneakers sank into
the cove's white sand. As he lurched forward, as his feet tripped over
themselves and he stuttered toward the cool water, he saw a green boat
with a yellow sail in the cove and two figures walking, carefully, over
the little waves. Blood from his knee stained the sand as he limped. To
the Northwest, built atop a hillock which comes quite suddenly out of
the shifting tide, there was an old stone fort that was long since
abandoned. He remembered, quite suddenly, that the fort had been built
on the spot where an Indian trading post used to stand. When he was a
boy, under the watchful eye of his mother in a scarf on the bluff, he
had wandered old fort point for hours. He thought he, once, had found an
arrowhead---but beneath the summer sun it was difficult to tell what was
and what wasn't a dream.

His knees got the better of him. He fell, forward, into the cove. The
two lovers on the sailboat were too far to hear. The father was too slow
in taking his eyes off Lucy to see the runner fall, but the digger came
running. With ease, as one had done to him many years before, he dragged
the runner from the water, from peace, and smiled as he coughed and
opened his eyes.

"You gave me quite a scare there, my young friend!" The veteran said,
laughing, as the world screamed back to life within the runner's
heatstroke-addled mind. "Can you stand?" The runner shook his head and
shivered. "Ah! Don't sweat it. You wait here, I'll get the truck and
give you a lift to Doc Mitchel's, back to town. You stay put!" The
cheerful sailor left and the little green boat was tied up and soon Lucy
and her father were back at their rental place by the ferry landing. The
good doctor was kind and the runner was given iodine and sports drinks
and all was right in town cove but, that night, the runner lay awake in
his bed.

Moonlight fell in a slant through the window and onto his cheek. He was
trying. He was trying and he tried and he tried as hard as he could to
remember. He tried to understand what he had seen and, more importantly,
to remember. He knew his mother had worn a scarf and he knew that he had
been a boy on fort point and he knew that he had fallen in love and
faced many hardships but, for it all, he could not remember if he had
ever found an arrowhead in the ruins of an Indian trading post. Though
he could see it, though he could imagine finding it all dusty---only to
polish it and marvel as it shone in the sun---he could not remember if
it was *real.* A barn owl called outside his window. Pain came from his
knee. The next day, he would run out, to the cove, again.
