---
layout: posts
title: Translucent Petals
description: A short story by Edward Graham â€“ Translucent Petals
author: Edward Graham
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... The arrangements appeared over the course of several days ...
date: 2022-04-04
issue: spring-2022
image: '/assets/img/spring2022_og/graham.jpg'
width: 480
height: 640
---

The arrangements appeared over the course of several days on the steps
of the church, wreaths and sprays filled with baby's breath and
chrysanthemums and other blossoms that shrunk the rough-hewn doors with
their splendor. Tilly's mom would point out the flowers to her in a low
hush and she would giggle as she tried to repeat the names, rolling the
syllables around with her tongue like they were globs of caramel.

It was the season when the pink crowned mountains gave way to a cool
darkness that shuttered doors in its wake. But Tilly sensed an energy in
the air, an undercurrent of transformation that crackled through the
town in the waning twilight. People walked the streets and muttered
angrily at the yellowing peaks in the distance. Young men in uniforms
rolled through town in convoys of vehicles she had never seen. And, all
the while, the flowers lining the steps of the church grew more
bountiful. Colors and smells and dazzling bouquets that filled her with
wonder and awe but were met by others with averted glances and bowed
heads.

Somewhere there's a photo from around that time of Tilly's eighth
birthday party, her face illuminated with joy as she opens a present
emitting a strange, disinterred glow in the black and white image. But
the faces around her are blurred and downcast. Parents and sister are
nearby, close and loving, but mom's smile is dimmed and dad's eyes are
tired. Afterwards, when they told her the workers were building a dam
that would flood the town and surrounding land, she screamed and cried
and told them she wasn't going anywhere. But everyone had to move, they
told her, and it would be a town like this town and a house just like
this house. Just not this house in this town.

It wasn't long afterwards that the familiar landmarks around her began
to disappear. Structures and buildings that could be saved were hauled
away or stripped to their foundations. Workers dug up the coffins and
the headstones from the graveyard and moved them to the new town to be
reburied in a similar field. Things that could be put back together were
put back together in the same way they had been before. Gaping pits and
hardened wheel tracks were left in their place. Only the church, with
its heavy stone walls and holy ground, remained untouched for the coming
flood.

When it came time for her family to leave, Tilly took a spot in the bed
of the pickup truck amid a mess of clothes and chinaware and other
portable possessions that had been haphazardly piled together. Her
father had tasked her with keeping an eye on their belongings and the
weight of the responsibility temporarily distracted her from the
heaviness of moving. Tilly felt like a baby bird as she burrowed herself
between framed photos and curtains and suitcases until she was ensconced
in the detritus of their life.

She could hear her sister softly humming through the open window, the
noise mingling with the rattling plates and cups as they made their way
through town. Boarded windows along Main Street concealed barren rooms
that would soon become forgotten rubble. They turned a corner and she
watched several uniformed boys carry a large couch out to a waiting
truck. Beyond them was the church, the structure rising above a mess of
wilting flowers that whipped across the sidewalk and grass in the autumn
wind.

The pickup slowed as they passed and she watched a cluster of petals
swirl upward in a tumult of color around the top of the steeple. The
light from above seeped into the oranges and yellow-reds and blues,
translucent specks that became shards of colored glass delicately
twisting in the air. Time itself seemed to be caught in the vortex of
their dance, a malleable force that dematerialized as it inhaled the
beauty of the petals that hovered and spun and shimmered.

A corona of dust kicked up by the truck hung loosely in the air around
Tilly and she swatted the drifting specks away with a vertical hand. Her
fingers moved quicker and quicker until she created an opening in space
large enough for her little body and leapt from the bed of the truck.
Tilly ran toward the church steps, ignoring the shouts of her parents
and the sounds of cracking porcelain and falling boxes as she welcomed
the petals down from the sky with outstretched arms.

Different shades of color grazed her face and body as she laughed and
twirled around in their presence. Mystical violets and delicate azures
and bold oranges, all mixed together in the palette of life. Tilly
squeezed her eyes tight, hoping that she could freeze herself in that
moment and that scene forever. But time didn't stop. When she opened her
eyes the wind had passed and the petals had fallen and the scene had
ended. By the time her father got to her, Tilly's laughter had turned to
tears.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

She had been back only once, years before now, to visit the site of the
town. When they were a few years older and already starting to drift
apart, Tilly and her sister hitched a ride out to the reservoir to look
out at the expanse of water. Every new generation believes that they
will be the last, vigilantly waiting for the destruction of life and the
end of all things. This was their opportunity to stand on the precipice
of extinction in the relative security of their existence. But her
sister only had faded memories of the town, and the water didn't know
that its bottom was pockmarked with smashed foundations and cracked
pavement. Only the top of the church steeple, the cross aslant the
blinding blue, remained to mark the town's presence, a silent sentinel
forever standing watch over an unobtainable past.

Now a much older woman living with her son in a distant city, Tilly
often had nothing to do during the day but sit and reflect in an empty
apartment. Sometimes when the weather was nice she would try to go for
walks to free herself, for just a little while at least, from the
artificial clutter that seemed to dominate the end stage of life.
Feeling particularly antsy on one of those summer days, Tilly decided to
go for a stroll in the nearby park. There was an almost cloudless blue
canvas painted above the city, and the warmth, offset by a light breeze
that helped to temper the heat, brought out a crowd of others in search
of respite from the pressing highrises.

Tilly walked cautiously along the side of the path, hands clasped behind
her back, careful to avoid the runners and the bikers and the dogs on
long leashes that stopped every so often to take tentative sniffs at the
ground. Ahead of her the trail bent away from an open field of green
where a small crowd had gathered around a gleaming object. It was only
slightly taller than the heads that bobbed around it, somewhat rough in
form and vaguely familiar, but its appearance had drawn in bicyclists
and families and joggers and photographers and reporters and countless
others who made up the clump of bodies.

As Tilly got closer she saw that it was a lone Doric column, the fluting
on the shaft reflecting back the light from its cyan surface. It seemed
to come from nowhere, this fully formed thing, emerging from the ground
like a fantastical lightning rod that filled the park with its presence.
She wandered from the path until she was upon it, another body in the
crowd with another pair of eyes trying to comprehend. A man was down on
a bare knee in front of her recording the column with his phone and she
stood motionless behind him watching it on his screen. It seemed to
vibrate and hiss, an internal rattling and banging that traveled from
the column to the phone to her. Tilly turned and gave an inquisitive
look to the woman beside her.

"There's a man in there," she said, waggling her eyebrows a little for
dramatic effect. "An artist, apparently. He's breaking his way out."

"Why?" Tilly asked, taking a step back from the kneeling man to
reevaluate the column with this new information.

"Why not?" the woman shrugged. "It would take away from the experience
if we knew."

Tilly turned back away, allowing the scene to engulf her in a wave of
contemplation. She watched and thought for minutes, for hours, for a
lifetime, standing and staring, thinking into the column, into the
percussive sound of chiseled rock. And then the incorporeal artist
manifested into existence, dusty and waist-deep in cracked marble. Above
his respirator-covered face sat an elaborate papal miter, adorned with a
bright galaxy of polished stones and other jeweled adornments. His
gloved hands, still gripping the implements of his release, rested on
the shattered rock as he jutted his ornately covered head toward the
mass of people, eyes rich with the luster of freedom.

The crowd reacted with a collective straining and lifting of heads, a
sense of rediscovered wonder, people trying to see the depths of things
lost in the everyday habit of sight. But it takes a lifetime of moments
to see. Where others saw fractured motion and the tearing down of
barriers, Tilly saw the drowned church poking through the choppy blue
surface. She saw the petals in the jeweled stones that crowned the
broken steeple. She saw her childhood and the reservoir, the past and
the present, all blended together into a new moment, a bridge between
what was and what is, time drained out of history, stripped down to its
most primal elements and chiseled out of life.

Tilly walked away in a waking daze, back to the path, one foot
instinctively placed in front of the other, cautiously advancing. The
trail curled through a small grove of manicured oak trees before opening
up again and hugging the artificial pond at the heart of the park. There
were benches lining the edge of the water and she made a beeline for the
first one that she saw. She had to stop and think, to process the
fantastical and real, to think about all of the known and forgotten
moments that made up the whole of her life, all of the experiences just
underneath the surface that are waiting to escape back into being.

She squeezed her eyes tight, trying hard to bring back the little girl
inside of her. In the blackness of her mind she could see the colors
raining down again, arms stretched up above her head toward the shower
of blossoms. All of it so familiar and so near, aromas and tingles
drifting softly on an autumn breeze. The way the sun's rays shone
through the translucent petals, a kaleidoscope of soft fire floating
above her and permeating her very being. Even now, sitting far away from
the flooded town, she still sensed a strange beauty, an imprint of what
had once been that still lingered like a thin scum on the pond's
surface, as if the density of her life was compressed down to that one
moment and scattered across her life like petals on the wind.

Tilly knew it was time to go home, that her son was back from work by
now and would be worrying about where she was, but she wanted to enjoy
this moment for just a little while longer. She sighed and stretched out
her tired legs, waiting for the next moment to happen. And, as dusk drew
near, the sky returned some of its color to the water below.
