---
layout: posts
title: As the Crow Flies
description: A short story by Melissa A. Morgan â€“ As the Crow Flies
author: Melissa A. Morgan
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... A thick fog rolled across the lowlands ...
date: 2021-01-10
issue: winter-2021
image: '/assets/img/winter2021_og/morgan.jpg'
width: 640
height: 414
---

A thick fog rolled across the lowlands cutting the horizon into bands of
muted gray and stark white. The chamber's occupant was oblivious to
everything but the happenings outside his solitary window and the words
flowing from his own mouth. The spoken verses mingled with intermittent
calls of crows, creating a ghostly song. "The Lord gives strength to his
people; the Lord blesses his people with peace." Caw. Caw. "Be strong
and courageous. Do not be afraid." Caw. "Do not be discouraged, for the
Lord your God will be with you wherever you go." Caw. Caw. Caw.

The door opened into the room, slowly and silently, as a single crow lit
on the outer window ledge. Caw. Henry mirrored the bird as it cocked its
head to one side and then the other. Their eyes, dark and glistening,
met, and they stared at one another in silence. A voice from behind
broke the spell, "Henry, I've brought you soup. Eat before it gets
cold."

"He giveth to the beast his food, and to the young ravens which cry,"
replied Henry.

"True," said the man. "And the beasts and the ravens eat when presented
with the opportunity, my boy." The crow flew away. "Now eat, and we will
go for a walk when this fog clears. You need to get out of this room."

"Yes, Father," replied Henry, taking the steaming bowl of tomato soup.

Once he could no longer hear his father's footsteps down the staircase,
Henry opened the window and poured out the soup onto the rock garden
below. "That your fasting may not be seen by others but only to your
Father who is unseen; and your Father who sees what is done in secret
will reward you." Henry dressed warmly, finishing off with Wellington
boots, a knit cap, and a heavy wool coat, and sat on the bed awaiting
his father's return.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

They walked silently from the great house, over the hill to the duck
pond. The pond was empty and still, like a large pane of tarnished
silver glass. "They'll return in the spring," said his father about the
ducks. "They always do." Henry nodded, staring at their reflections in
the pond.

"She came to me again last night," said Henry, still staring at their
watery figures. "I know it was a dream, this time. Where her eyes should
have been were just black, empty sockets that, somehow, looked right
through me. She talked to me, but it wasn't her voice. She said, 'The
eye that mocks the father and scorns obedience to his mother will be
plucked out by the ravens.'"

"It was just a dream."

"I know," answered Henry, turning away from the pond.

"Let's go," said his father. They walked back up the hill, stopping at
the big oak with the swing that once occupied Henry for hours on end.
"How about a swing? I'll push you."

Henry sat on the weathered board seat, holding the ropes with both
hands, while his father gently pushed him. Up and down, back and forth,
gray cloud sky above, and rusty, mustard colored grass below. Pulling
one of the ropes, slowing the swing, Henry asked, "Do you ever dream
about her?"

"Not for some time now, Hank. Now all of my dreams are of you."

An unexpected honking drew their attention upward. Pointing to the sky,
the father said, "Look, Canadian Geese. I bet they are going to the
pond." Henry watched the birds until they were out of view.

"Maybe," said Henry, putting his feet on the ground and stopping the
swing. "There were seven of them. Do you think that's a sign?"

"A sign of what, exactly?"

"The seven churches, the seven angels, the seven seals, the seven
trumpets, the seven deadly sins," said Henry.

His father kneeled in front of Henry, placed his hands on the boy's
shoulders, looked him in the eyes, and said, "No, Hank. They are just
geese. Just birds, not symbols of doom or signs of some unseen hand
that's going to punish you. Just birds!" He pulled his son in, hugging
him firmly. Henry did not reciprocate his father's embrace, instead
whispering, "Can we go now?"

"Sure," said his father, rising to his feet and turning toward the
house. Henry touched his father's hand, pointed with his head, and
asked, "Can we go there first?"

They walked, hand in hand, past the big oak, toward the old stone wall
at the far end of the estate, stopping just beyond the trimmed azalea
bushes. Henry sat down, opposite the polished black stone, and said, "He
will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more."

The minutes-long reverent silence was broken by his father asking, "What
do you see, Henry?"

"Mother's grave."

"And what else?"

Henry replied by reading from his mother's monument, "Margaret Elizabeth
Manchester. May 19, 1987. November 3, 2018. Loving wife of William.
Devoted mother of Henry."

"Anything else?"

The boy simply shrugged, and William took a seat on the grass beside his
son. "I'll tell you what I see. I see a little ray of sunshine, over
there, breaking through the clouds. I see the greens of daffodils coming
up through the ground, just in front of the headstone. Those were
Maggie's favorite flowers, you know. But most importantly, I see you,
Hank. I see my son that I love more than anything or anyone else in this
world. I see your pain and suffering. My boy, my sweet, sweet boy."

Henry's low sobs made William shed tears of his own, and he put his arm
around his son. "You are not alone, Hank. I am right here with you. It
hurt so much when we lost her. It still hurts. There are times when I
can't believe it's real. It's been nearly three years, and it still
doesn't feel real, sometimes." William wiped tears from his face and
cleared his throat. "I can't lose you too. Please don't give up. Please
don't stop trying. There's still you and me and the birds and the
flowers and sunshine. Just don't give up, Hank." Henry buried his head
in William's chest as a large crow lit on Margaret Manchester's
headstone. "Let's go back and warm up by the fire. I'll make us some hot
chocolate," said William.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

Henry stood in front of the enormous stone fireplace, carefully prodding
the remains of the morning fire. He dinged the fire iron against the
blackened eye hooks embedded in the inner walls of the firebox. In
another time, they would have anchored expansive rods from which large
pots and metal grates hung for cooking. Henry studied the height of the
firebox, several inches above his head, and threw the iron poker on the
hearth. He dumped the entire bucket of kindling atop the glowing embers
and ash and then stacked split wood logs on top, until the flames were
too high and too hot for him to add more. He stood on the hearth,
hypnotized by the tongues of fire licking and blackening the surrounding
stones.

"Henry, what the hell are you doing? Get back," yelled his father,
dropping the tray of mugs filled with steaming hot chocolate. Henry
responded by moving closer to the fire, until the front of his sweater
burst into flames. William grabbed Henry, throwing him to the floor, and
using his own body to smother the flames.

"Damnit, Henry!" Sitting atop his son, William let out a feral, guttural
scream.

"God will deliver us from the fiery furnace, and He will deliver us out
of thine -- "

William slapped his son and then shook him violently. "No! You don't get
to do this! I won't allow it! You hear me?" William got off of Henry,
sat between the boy and the raging fire, pulled his knees into his
chest, and furrowed his head into his arms.

Henry lay still, sweating, breathing hard, and listened to his father
cry. He raised his head just enough to see his father's small, tight
silhouette against the backdrop of the fire. "Blessed are those who
mourn."

At those words, William turned to his son. "No, mourning is not a
blessing. Death is not a blessing. Suffering is not a blessing. You want
to know what is a blessing? Life is a blessing!" William stood over
Henry. "You want your God to bless you? Do you? Then you damn well
better start living, boy." William stormed from the room, leaving Henry
and the mess of broken mugs and spilled chocolate on the den floor.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

Henry awoke in his bed, but could not remember how he had gotten there.
Slowly his eyes adjusted to his surroundings. The room was still dark as
was the sky outside his window. William was asleep in the straight chair
which he'd moved from the desk, below the window, and placed in front of
the door. Henry took the crochet throw from the foot of his bed and
draped it over his father, careful not to wake him.

Henry stood in front of the window, stretching and rubbing his hands
over his chest. He smelled of smoke and felt the hard, melted morsels
that dotted his sweater, braille memorializing the previous day's events
-- the flames, the fear, and the anger. He turned to his still sleeping
father and then returned his gaze to the window, eyeing his own
reflection. Barely audible, Henry mumbled, "For death has come up into
our windows and has entered into our palaces." He carefully climbed on
to his desk, silently opened the double casement windows, and flew into
the darkness on brilliant black wings.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

A feeling of falling jolted William awake. He was nearly blinded by the
bright sky above him and rolled onto his stomach to allow his eyes time
to adjust. Caw. Caw. He turned his head to the left and, with a nod,
acknowledged the two crows atop the headstones of his wife and of his
son. William sat upright and produced a handful of peanuts from his
right pocket. "I'm sorry," he said, holding out his offering. "I must
have fallen asleep. I've been waiting on you to come back to me."