---
layout: posts
title: Leavings
description: A short story by Briar Ripley Page – Leavings
author: Briar Ripley Page
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... Chantal’s hands hovered over the stinking thing on the bedsheets ...
date: 2021-01-15
issue: winter-2021
image: '/assets/img/winter2021_og/page.jpg'
width: 640
height: 373
---

Chantal's hands hovered over the stinking thing on the bedsheets. It was
long and wet, the color of clay.

"Never seen a turd before?" snorted Meggy. She snapped a pair of latex
gloves over her own hands, which were fat and leathery. "Gotta get used
to some gross shit in this line of work, kiddo. Literally *and*
figuratively."

Meggy scooped up the turd and carried it into the bathroom. She set it
in the toilet bowl and flushed. "There. All gone. Strip the sheets,
Chantal."

"Should we do anything special with them? Put them in a bag separate
from the rest of the linens?"

"This ain't the Hilton, sweetie." Meggy chuckled. "We use strong bleach.
It'll be fine."

Chantal dutifully stripped the hotel bed of sheets and pillowcases. She
worked them all into a neat bundle and dumped everything in the laundry
bag on the side of the housekeeping cart. She took fresh linens from the
cart's bottom shelf and re-made the bed. She tried to breathe only
through her mouth; the smell of the turd still hung in the air. It was
an odor like rotting leaves and bad teeth.

"Good," said Meggy, watching. "Nice hospital corners. You'll be ready to
strike out on your own tomorrow, I think. Gonna tell Andrea."

"Really?" It was stupid, Chantal knew, to feel a flush of pride and
excitement. This was a terrible job. Still. You had to take your
dopamine rushes where you could get them. Meggy smiled. "Why don't you
show me just how fast you can do the rest of this room by yourself?" She
planted her hands on her broad hips, leaned forward a little, and
groaned. "My back's killing me. Gonna sneak out for a smoke real quick,
then start on 9B."

"Sure."

Meggy left, rubbing the small of her back through her worn polyester
uniform. Chantal began dousing the bathroom in pastel pink and blue
spray cleaners. Their harsh chemical stench battled the lingering ghost
of the turd for supremacy.

Chantal was a lot more efficient at cleaning than she'd been a week
before when she'd started working at the Kingdom Immanent Deluxe Motor
Inn. But she had nothing on Meggy, who had to be at least sixty and who
had, as she'd told Chantal several times, been employed as a housekeeper
since she was Chantal's age.

Meggy was vacuuming 9B\'s threadbare carpet when Chantal caught up with
her. She winced every time she had to bend her back a certain way. "You
got the keys?" she asked.

Chantal nodded.

"Go on to 10B. Make yourself useful." Meggy's abundant but ill-cared-for
gray curls were starting to straggle out of their bun and hairnet. They
swayed over her bloodshot eyes.

Chantal pushed the cart forward so it sat between the doors of 9B and
10B. Across the outside walkway around the second story of the motel,
someone was leaning on the paint-flaking iron railing. They were
watching Chantal. She squinted, but she couldn't make out their face;
whoever it was wore a broad-brimmed, elegant hat, like something out of
an old movie. Incongruously, they had on a black tracksuit and black
knitted gloves, even though it was summer.

Chantal decided the best course of action was to ignore the strange
figure. Kingdom Immanent attracted some real shady types.

She knocked on the door to 10B and loudly said, "Housekeeping!" She
waited a moment. When no one responded, she unlocked the door. She
glanced back across the walkway, but the black-clad person was gone.

10B was about as neat as the rooms ever were. The bedsheets were rumpled
and the window was slightly open. The TV remote lay facedown on the
floor. The air smelled faintly like copper, or rust. No tip left on the
nightstand, unfortunately, but easy work.

Chantal went into the bathroom. Off-white tile, no towels disturbed. The
toilet paper still folded into a neat triangle at the end of the roll,
like the guest hadn't even had to take a dump.

Chantal's eyes wandered to the bathtub. It was full of something. Bloody
and soft, folded and twisted around on itself so many times Chantal
couldn't determine its proper shape.

It reminded Chantal of a buck she'd once seen in the middle of shedding
his antler velvet. Bone-branches red and clotted with gore; flesh-shreds
dripping off their prongs, like mottled, moldy ribbons. Skin peeling
around the base of the antlers and flopping down over the deer's narrow,
beautiful face.

There was much too much *something* for it to be antler velvet, unless
deer could grow big as houses.

Chantal decided to fetch Meggy. There had to be something she was
missing, some fact that would render the soft, bloodied mound mundane.
Meggy would know.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

"Well, I'll be damned," said Meggy, as she looked inside the bathtub.

"Ever seen anything like it?" asked Chantal.

"Nope," said Meggy. She sounded more intrigued than disgusted. With a
hearty grunt, she squatted beside the tub and reached inside to touch
the thing with her bare hands. "It's warm," Meggy announced.

Chantal shuddered. Meggy's hand was smeared with sanguineous red.

"You know what this reminds me of?" Meggy continued to poke and prod.
She didn't look at Chantal.

"Antler velvet?"

"Ha! No. Reminds me of these old folktales my dad used to read me when I
was a little girl. Years and years and years before you was a twinkle in
your parents' eyes, of course. Some of them were about these people that
could change shape by taking off their skin and putting on a different
one. They'd have to hide the skin they weren't wearing, leave it
someplace safe while they did their business so nobody'd steal it."

"Sounds morbid."

"It wasn't really," said Meggy.

"But those are just stories," Chantal pressed. "Someone could have been
hurt here, right? We should *do* something. What should we do?"

The rust smell seemed to get stronger and heavier by the instant.
Chantal was sure it came from the tub. She felt lightheaded.

"Get out of here," said Meggy. Her voice wasn't unkind. "Go and fetch
Andrea from her office. I'll stay."

Chantal couldn't comply with Meggy's order fast enough.

She didn't run, although she wanted to, but she did walk quickly,
swinging her arms and taking big, emphatic breaths. She didn't burst
through the door to Andrea Cordello's closet-sized lair, but she did
push it open without knocking.

"Something's in the bathroom of 10B," Chantal started.

Ms. Cordello looked up from a pile of paperwork with an irritated
expression.

"There's a lot of blood," said Chantal, hating the discrepancy between
the fact of what she'd witnessed and her verbal powers of description.
"There's like\...part of an animal, maybe. You'd better come and see.
Meggy's up there now."

"A dead animal?" Ms. Cordello frowned as she stood up.

"Something like that, ma'am."

"Lead the way," said Ms. Cordello, and Chantal did.

The door to 10B still stood open a little. Ms. Cordello began to step
inside, then froze. She withdrew her foot from the doorway and stood
once more on the concrete walk.

Chantal peered over her supervisor's shoulder. Meggy was nowhere in
sight. The room was steamy, as though someone had just taken a long, hot
shower.

A plump, pretty young woman sat naked on the bed. Her long hair covered
everything indecent, and she didn't seem embarrassed by the other
women's presence in the least. Chantal felt her face flush with shame.

"It's all right!" said the woman. Her curls spread out on the bed around
her thighs. "Is there something I can do to help you?"

Ms. Cordello gently closed the door. "I was informed the occupant of
this room was out," she called. "One of the housekeepers reported a dead
animal in your bathroom. I'm sorry to ask, but---would you know anything
about that?"

"No," said the pretty woman. "*I'm* sorry." A muffled, musical laugh.
"Believe me, I'd be the first to complain if that was the case. There's
nothing in the bathroom except soap and steam. You can come in and look
if you want; I'll put on a towel."

"No, no," said Ms. Cordello. "There must have been some mistake. We're
sorry to bother you. I'll send a housekeeper by again later to service
your room. Unless you'd prefer not to be disturbed."

"I swear---" said Chantal. Her head spun. "Look," she began again,
desperate, "I'll try the rooms next door. I know what I saw. Meggy saw
it, too. She's around here somewhere, waiting."

"Make it quick," said Ms. Cordello. "Don't waste my time."

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

9B was immaculate, devoid of velvet gore and Meggy alike. 11B was
trashed and filthy, with nothing in the tub but a wet mat of hair
escaping into or out of the drain. Meggy wasn't in there, either.

Chantal wasn't really surprised by Meggy's absence. She *was* surprised
when Ms. Cordello didn't fire her on the spot, or even chew her out
much.

"Don't come to my office with nonsense like this again," she told
Chantal. "I'll ask you once more: do you know where Meggy went?"

"I don't know. Honest to God."

"She'd better not have quit," Ms. Cordello said, more to herself than to
Chantal.

"I don't think she would---not like this. Not Meggy. But you never know.
I promised I wouldn't lose any more girls this year. I can't afford---"
she broke off and ran a hand through her sensible bob. "Chantal!"

Chantal's spine straightened. "Yes, ma'am?"

"You'll be good on your own for the rest of today, right? You can handle
what's left of the second floor?"

"I think so, ma'am."

"Excellent," Ms. Cordello said. "You get back to your work, and I'll get
back to mine."

Through the door to 10B, Chantal heard a voice singing words she
couldn't make out. She shivered for no good reason. The air was very
warm and starting to get humid as the day advanced.

When Chantal had almost finished up in 11B (where, despite or because of
the immense mess, she pocketed a \$5.75 tip), she heard the distinct
sound of the door to 10B opening, then closing. She heard footsteps
moving away. It sounded like two people walking together.

Chantal stuck her head through the door of 11B just in time to see the
couple's backs descending the stairs. There was the pretty woman, now
wearing a satin dress that was (in Chantal's opinion) much too tight.
Her wide hips and ass swayed and wriggled under her veil of hair. She
was arm in arm with the figure dressed all in black Chantal had seen
earlier. The person still wore their hat and gloves; Chantal could see
no sliver of bare flesh poking out anywhere.

"Meggy?" Chantal called.

Neither of them stopped or turned around.

Soon, she heard a car start in the parking lot. Then she heard it drive
away.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

It was still light when Chantal got off work. That was the nice thing
about summer. At the bus stop, she looked up at the sunset. She looked
out at the road. She looked down at her sneakers, which had a crusty,
reddish-brown material stuck conspicuously to their laces.

She hadn't noticed that before. Maybe it was shit. Maybe it was dried
blood. Maybe it was just dirt.

Chantal sucked the end of her cigarette and decided against making a
closer investigation.

Eventually the bus came to take her away, and she put out her cigarette
and got on.