---
layout: posts
title: The Artscape Suite
description: A short story by Paul Bali – The Artscape Suite
author: Paul Bali
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... roving thru yr city in an improv troupe ...
date: 2021-01-12
issue: winter-2021
image: '/assets/img/winter2021_og/bali.jpg'
width: 640
height: 360
---

## roving thru yr city in an improv troupe

bliss among my homies, roving thru yr city in an improv troupe. we spill
aggressive-nerdy from the pre-ordained patios, accost you with our Zener
cards, with customized hypnoses, with wondrous Q&A for the lucky-lonely.

we crash a retail atrium whose bustle-rush sublates into a high &
churchly hush, the business sent above where it collects in the
vaulting. he spurns our cute powers, a vagrant given space to sprawl: a
stern mien bill-givers come away absolved from, knowing now that

*No one owes me anything---Thanks!*

Commuters' friendly pointers as we wander thru the Union Station
underworld. we'll come upon, and learn to awe: a mile-long arroyo made
of hardwood. our cellar trail has ended, here: in end-to-end b-ball
courts, the subfloor compounded of a polyfibre Stanford has a patent on,
a father notes as anthem ends and WOOS & YAWS crescendo for the tip-off.

W.H. Auden in kurta-pyjama paired with pristine white nu-buck New
Balance joggers---a Sri Chinmoy acolyte who sounds like James Merrill
via Geoffrey Pye's take on Gene Simmons.

thus, they are Legion. and what is it they're saying? 'tis witty-wise &
genial, a soundstream agreeable to seize my two sisters into
school-stage tableaux: a weekday edu-tainment, a Sybil re-enactment, a
scene from Mount Parnassus for the kiddies seated placid.

a YouTube spiritualist, a mutualist of Jules & i insists we're all
familiar from her past-life regressions. i'm friendly & unskeptical, but
ask for an example. she gives what seems the opposite: a pre-cog
success. *i get that all the time,* i say, and think aloud us chilling
in a caf; then drinking on a wind-harassed deck; then a plazzo, a
pliatzo, a piazza pigeons scatter from as astral light densifies to
three paying patrons flush with traveller's cheques.

scored by my Bach alarm i'd blindly non-swiped to Snooze: a Glen Gould
biopic. Alex Trebek, by the second Variation, is my over-dyed Mentor so
his Aspect is a merchant fresh from Zanzibar. and thru the Variations, a
face-chain: Trebek is Bruce French, my hometown music tutor; who dings
Joe McElroy on the cover of a journal set before me in my day-life. he's
swarthy in this pic that the gameshow host had prepped me for, as
Maestro pushed my essays into poesy.

one assessing glance from the stoop-perching genius and i'm vowed to
send off \"Thersites\" to *Fiction* mag---where Eds are all his friends
from the '70s, i bet---yet don't accept poetry, *Fiction* mag, hmm.
maybe i can spin it as a Monologue, Confession from a prison-bed?

<br>
<br>

## friends of Harvard Hall gather round

a Burnaby darbaar, **The Vujh Sandhu Centre**. the aluminum-cool sign
extends the Centre's sleek sculpture down a mowed slope.

in the wide & squat langar hall, many Preets urge more paraantha on me,
fewer sweets. many Chachis tsk-tsk a sad decline in piety, this
hangout-space where elders prowl leeringly in daal-stained dress shirts.

i barge into the seminar, announce to all Iranians i disbelieve the
standard Theology. i'm ushered into hallway by their White Knight
instructor, protected from the hissing and he whispers that *We know*.

who needs me to be freed of their Theology? if stats are right, my
saying it is secondary. if stats are wrong? the truth is not with me.

a big-hall exam, someone to my right whispers *type of Swedish snack
that rhymes with Björk?*

*a marketing puzzle on a cracker-box flap,* i scrawl. *the O&O for
Ogilvy & Ogilvy, et cet* when a roving Proctor Ratchet slaps her hand
upon my page, signals to the dude with a stopwatch to Note this, but
what's with? i hadn't said a thing. the answer came unbidden from a
questioning i still can't account for.

friends of Harvard Hall gather round for the Take-down. ropes drawn taut
from cupola down to lawn by strongmen straining as the crowd chants the
countdown: THREE, TWO...

aaand now i'm inside, behind the brick facade with the wanderers
innocuous in varied rates of time-kill. they know or don't give a that
their home shall soon be open from the front? the staff off-foyer seem
oblivious in their upraised counterspace, overwatching hypnotized
browsers at the keepsake shelves.

<br>
<br>

## i dream a new Arrival

i dream a place i've been to or i've dreamt before. could be i concocted
in that same dream a memstore. for the dreamer-ingenue, some scenes are
new, some are déja vu, so he's dazey either way, sleepwalking thru with
a mou gaping stupid-cute.

within each dream, i dream a new Arrival. each of you is prefaced in a
hair-raising context so i verify, in waking life, my precog. i charm you
when we meet, for i've thought thru the symbols of your dream-self. i
greet you with a knowing ease, like Stephen unto me, or the Nazarene
when gathering his fisher-friends.

as i say, all within a single broken dream: the dreamt pre-meeting
*plus* the daylight greeting---all within a drawn-out Snooze-fest.

<br>
<br>

## my five easy pieces @ a Friday recital

hung the whole Saturday with regal old receivers of the weekly Salon.
HIS body modded for Cock-and-Ball Tortures, HER townhome optimized for
livestream Improv. i slip inside their inner court where he's already
pining for that Chicken Place he goes to when the pain overtakes.

from underneath the futon they are sejant on i draw a long piece
shedding rust-dust someone needs to vacuum, pls. the long loose piece
gives a jew's-harp doo-wops when i wobble it, is totem of his
steel-caged tumescent cock they spend all day transmuting into Art.

perhaps she meant *this*, the Brahmaness who hates Delhi Kitty Parties,
this: *Find thine own self-torture*. the red-lip Lady with eye-wrinkles
looming by our chummy huddle, post-recital. starchy in a sari, she
advises *ad libitum*: exaggerate the tempo surges, slow the end of
phrase to warp the air of the performance hall.

i don't play piano, so waking-me assumes she means my **Covid
speeches**, rag-outs at the mic at General Members Meetings.

Sunday, a reprise: an omnibus of all the week's performers. is this that
glass bunker on a laser-streaked thoroughfare in long-exposure
nite-shots on Pixabay? Queen or King Street likely, by the streetcar i
arrive by. a whole floor Triad-run for call girls, but it's not my
aim---to call on girls nor turn Travis Bickle on the Triad.

i'm dream-conflating the low-story Lakeshore condo plus the MILF
sexworker's Motel 6 Rick visits in this very sharp new novel out at
Tragickal.com. a mirror-paneled Art Haus these partner profs, oldschool
OCADians, preside upon. SHE commits his naked self-inflictions in a
blown-up portraiture set throughout the living space. a handsome guy, in
older shots, and all along like Iggy Pop: naked not thru vanity, as
proved by his persistence, his commitment to the Nude as his body falls
apart.

SHE plunks out chromatic chords, cabinet propped open & the stringworks
treated with---rusty metal shards. it all comes together at her
*Pyaaner*.

<br>
<br>

## from bloody neckhole, final curve of cervix

is Bloody Mary's mouth rimmed in **pomegranate rind**? are sailors in
the wicker showers **grabbing soapy dicks** when waving Nurses jog on
by?

she's gazing at my side into our armoire's mirror**, snuggled into
lateral intimacy**. her head cocking soft on my shoulder, finding
comfort, but also in a query as she

**pulls her robe open on a doll-like nudity**, a flash of **no
pudenda**.

her breath a bit rank---is *she* Kundalini, always with me?

the apple-doll cheeks of a high-plateau oxygenator, Tibetan or
Mongolian. her cheeks **a ruddy rouge** to match her **wedding-red
robe**, or she's done up **for a funeral**.

when next i peek, her head is gone: **a curve of cervix** undulating
wicked from her neckhole. a serpentine **facial form** emergent in the
snapping upper vertebrae, and hissing thru the mandibles.

<br>
<br>

## a paveway in the desert

a rep from Lynyrd Skynyrd pulls in passersby for interview: *what's your
favorite rock band?* a segment for relief from bombings in Pakistan. a
light & friendly word from the "street," but where's the retail, where's
the frontage & the sidewalks, all the traffic?

we're pacing to & fro on a paveway in the desert.

one gal is wittily evasive. *The Boozy Doozy Band* she says while trying
to shoo him off and push ahead for non-shopping. yet finds herself
headed down a fenced-in off-ramp, conveyed toward a lazy-leaning border
guard & Exit sign, flaking white-on-red:

**Welcome to Susiland.**

is *she* Susi, and this the way home to her solipsistic bed? Exit from
the Commons that we stroll upon? we each found a portal here, a hole
within our solo dream. the Alabaman longhairs all are neo-Nazareans, and
we the new Ecclesia, by baby-steps. our pacing is a dynamo or site-prep.

this could be a home for us, to renovate this landing strip to
Jamestown, a happy-ending Jonestown!

she pulls herself out of it, spins on the momentum of the *doozy*
dinging *dizzy*, meaning children freely circling in the summer sun. her
Spoonerism navigates a Susi-friendly way to join the fun.

we're joyous she can stay yet in this easing of relations, our faces
nodding *yes* at the pleasure of our laughter, what a tragedy. i take
the chance to ascertain: **hey, but *are* you Susi**? and her final *ha*
is panic as she dissipates & fades ---

it is morning.
