---
layout: posts
title: Trypstytch
description: A short story by Ahimaz Ponrasa – Trypstytch
author: Ahimaz Ponrasa
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... I couldn’t believe what she said ...
date: 2021-01-07
issue: winter-2021
image: '/assets/img/winter2021_og/ponrasa.jpg'
width: 640
height: 425
---

*(I)*

'Is that wilderness that I see inside the room!'

When she said it, I couldn't believe what she said. Well, she didn't say
it. How shall I put it? Let me say when she said what she said she
didn't say it outright. She expressed it so subtly as one would draw a
gesture while still being oblivious to what's being expressed and as one
would drop a slip of tongue. But I didn't believe in that which made
itself obvious in my unconscious until the unseen thorny shrubs inside
her could be seen on the outside.

She swears this wilderness isn't hers. That's unbelievable. There's
truth to her word and in that word there as well is this thorny
wilderness. This wilderness isn\'t mine either.

Wilderness! Where? What wilderness?

It's so full of riddles and shrubs in this exposed wilderness I cannot
ascertain the scores of shrubs that must belong to me. Is this
wilderness ours? Not hers and not mine but rather ours perhaps.

Would these thorns pierce our toddler's feet? Wouldn't fencing it with
thorn bush trees make the situation much worse?

So intense is the squeal of the baby palm squirrel.

'Wait what!' she says, 'Is that a bat flying inside the living room?'

<br>
*(II)b*

If you're sick I'm ham. You're not about forgetfulness and I'm not
forgiveness. If you're sickle I\'m curve. We come from a family of
unemployment.

The vempire ship from beyond horizon --- now mere skeleton --- suspended
in a wide half-metal space spider web. Capable of empathy only toward
dinosaurs the vempires made of eyce melt in the heat this side of the
horizon. What we call obscene they hold as law and we're not our rulers
that mourn as they make pretty projectiles smoothing melting vempires.
The thick gray smoke settling in the cavernous vempire ship is people
with memories.

Your hyenas, we'd rather mourn the passing of a Duck than a duke. Hyenas
are never as heinous so pardon us.

Why address your horrendous as horrendous, your heinous, when we all
already know that your horrendous is horrendous --- your horrendous
committing heinous acts and your heinous committing horrendous acts
being the norm since time immemorial would it not be apt for a change to
call your horrendous your national heinous and your heinous your
international horrendous.

Out of all existing beings it's perhaps humans who possess the ability
to realize the truth that existence is empty, devoid of meaning, and
they feel it all the time, but being in denial they've filled the void
with outrageous constructs most of which are outright dangerous to self
and others.

Consuming nonrandom content can only keep me content, says without
saying the person in pursuit of purpose.

<br>
*(III)*

The head of state tends to be heartless since the heart tends to attack.
The buried heart---having dangling aortas for antennas---still beating
claws its way out of the grave to the head but it turns out the head of
state is multi-headed. How can a single heart attack and arrest multiple
heads so obviously the heart too turns to multiple hearts. Seeing these
heads unexpectedly turn back to a single head as the hearts then
couldn't prepare the precise heart to attack. The hearts then turn to a
single heart too and upon seeing this the head predictably turns to
multiple heads. The fabled social animal is likely not a single human
but all social animals in a single humanimal dragging down and out in
all directions. Now single, now multiple depending on the state of head
of state the heart cries '*We are unclear*,' as it crouches back to the
cradle.

Why'd you want to step into the shoes of another, asks Nowon. Perhaps
one pair is all the oppressed have got and why don't you having several
already grow another pair instead and fuck right off to your
prerogatives, they reasons on: Narrative storytelling remains a tool of
the oppressor and by the time it becomes one in the hands of the
oppressed, and the oppressor learns to listen and unlearn, the world
would be reduced to ashes. Empathy, like so-called merit, eludes you.
What we seek and need is equity, and right now, not the empathy of the
fragile oppressor nurtured to feign innocence.

<br>
*(II)a*

Particles are just like me, purposeless and short-lived, but you seek to
make meaning out of our absurd existence.

Everything lacks essence including matter and energy. Essence doesn't
exist but everything does. How can anything lack something that doesn't
exist. Nothing lacks anything. This or that essence, though, can be
constructed and deconstructed. We exist therefore we exist.

There wouldn't be deconstructs in the absence of constructs and if
deconstructs lack essence it isn't because deconstructs lack essence but
because constructs lack essence in the first place.

In the seemingly empty anteroom a drizzle of aimless weakly interacting
slender particles. We need time to change and we have no time. Just like
stars antistars too are full of gas or what, drr­-rr brr-rr being the
so-called primal sound of the universe and the horror the horror of what
seems beauteous.

<br>
*(II)*

A leaf is partly wet from rain. Barbarism churns out many social
constructs that are rather antisocial constructs and spawns deconstructs
and so does neo-barbarism. To say all leaves are evenly wet is to
misconstrue. Representational narrative deconstructs are constructs too.
A dragonfly is expressive and we're affectless.

If we require deconstructs or constructs to regard an individual or a
group of people equal as human then, librarian, are we not being
barbaric? Let's not superimpose '*We are'* yet because being affectless,
I construe, is expressive too. One must deconstruct constructs and
reconstrue, well, I donno.

I'm unsure if my feasting on biriani the other day had something to do
with it but I likely chanced upon this thought waking up from an
uneventful two-day sleep. If we're gone, mating mid-flight eating
mosquitoes, that just me---. This *is this* is maybe why it's better to
be an insomniac.

<br>
<p style="text-align:center;">O00O</p>