---
layout: posts
title: Crushed and Growing
description: Crushed and Growing by Norbert Kovacs
author: Norbert Kovacs
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... My head gains shape and volume at a fresh lift of the skull ...
date: 2022-10-01
issue: fall-2022
image: '/assets/img/fall2022_og/kovacs.jpg'
width: 640
height: 370
---

A block's in my head I can't jar loose. I want it to go. I knock a hand
against my skull, and it does no good. The hardness seems planted
between my ears. I try to understand its cause, but my mind turns in
spirals and flounders. Everything I see loses depth, my head hardening
the whole time: trees stand minus shadows, people flatten into
silhouettes. I feel caught in some bizarre trap and lash out for my
protection. I take my head between my hands and squeeze in from the
sides. My hands press with the callous firmness of a stranger,
determined to break through the bone and meet. My skull resists,
stonelike. The pressure in my head builds, bracing me. I press still but
grow frightened. Will I not make it? I think. Will my head hold out? The
blood and muscle in my face pulse, bulging in ripples. Then, the skull
under my right hand crumples, then under my left. I am relieved. I
plough my hands in eagerly. Blood bursts dark and hot through my
fingers; my brain breaks into chunks. My eyes jolt from their sockets
and roll like loose dials; I cry them away in long driblets of blood. A
whimper escapes my lips that have jerked open, but I stifle the sound,
glad to hear it die. My head caves inward; its broken contents sink and
pool into my mouth.

I drop my hands to my side, exhausted. I stand there, as I had, able
only to breathe through my nose's remnants. I draw in air, let my lungs
hold it a short moment, and breathe out; I give myself to this easy
flow. After a long time, new eyes peer from the jumbled pulp my head has
become. They are like grain seeds, that tiny you would not see them
unless you knew they were there. I look with these dwarf eyes on the
sunlit tree, the rain falling, the birds flying outside. I take it in
without thinking, in a sort of rapture. Then my ears, dislodged from the
sides of my head, go to listening. I hear wind blow and leaves rustle,
the small stone strike and roll. I listen without a mind that knows or
understands. However, I attend to the sounds I hear without tiring.

The right side of my sunken head grows now. A supple cheek rises,
rounded on top by a knob of cheekbone. A dome of skin-clad skull lifts
over this knob like a sail before the wind. My eyes widen. Meanwhile, I
catch rhythms in the sights and sounds around me. I see the huge,
overhanging sun rise, pass, and set. I hear the long, long trill of the
robin give out in a sob. I store these rhythms in memory. Then, I can
see the sun at night. I hear sweet birds in the silence.

My head gains shape and volume at a fresh lift of the skull. An eye
socket, very round, and nasal bridge, jointed in the middle, form; my
face, in looking outward, contours. This new head forming is lighter in
structure than the old yet strongly framed. I touch the bones of the
thin mandible and cheek and find they flex but never snap. I can press
down the front of the broad, new forehead, but it rises back firmly when
let alone. This head, I feel, is designed for fierce stresses, strong
jolts, unsettlement. As its structure lifts, filling out, I become
excited recognizing things more than simply taking them in through the
senses. The sky clouds, and I know it might rain. I hear a friend's
voice and can anticipate her face around the corner. My newly fashioned
memory is alive at every act of recognition; within the dome of my
rounding cranium, it darts and flashes like the bees in a flower field.
My mind sharpens, and I gain understanding.

Now my head slows in its growth as if soon it will be done forming. I
admit its shape is imperfect, the top lumpy, the eyes strangely skewed.
However, what I do inside my fresh minted pate matters more to me. I can
see, hear, think, and know with this freedom I find strange and
refreshing at once. I wonder about the open plain and crowded, busy
plazas, the perspectives I can take on them. I am overwhelmed and
delighted puzzling over the small tea leaves in my cup. I think I will
make good on the potential this rough-born head of mine affords.