---
layout: posts
title: On Going to See Francis Bacon's Man & Beast with S/Z
description: "An essay by Steve Finbow  – On Going to See Francis Bacon's Man & Beast with S/Z"
author: Steve Finbow
tags: [nonfiction]
excerpt: ... the preceding drawings are already hallucinatory ...
date: 2022-10-01
issue: fall-2022
long: true
image: '/assets/img/fall2022_og/figure-1-steve.jpg'
width: 600
height: 690
---

**The Weaving of Voices**

The menacing, never tiring presence of my body. And that, although
nobody believes in god any more, everybody believes more and more in
man. When you will have made him a body without organs, then you will
have delivered him from all his automatic reactions and restored him to
his true freedom. If it encounters the animal, if it becomes
*animalized,* it is not by outlining a form, but on the contrary by
imposing, through its clarity and non-organic precision, a zone where
forms become indiscernible. Originally titled *Gorilla with
Microphones*, 1945-1946, revised as *Study for Man with Microphones,*
1947-1948; *Pour en finir avec le jugement de dieu*, 1947-1948, recorded
in the studios of French Radio between 22 and November 29, 1947, to be
broadcast 2 February 1948, banned on 2 February 1948. No one has ever
written, painted, sculpted, modelled, constructed, or invented anything,
except in order to extricate himself from hell. The Figure is the body
without organs (dismantle the organism in favour of the body, the face
in favour of the head); the body without organs is flesh and nerve; a
wave flows through it and traces levels upon it; a sensation is produced
when the wave encounters the forces acting on the body, an "affective
athleticism," a scream-breath. When sensation is linked to the body in
this way, it ceases to be representative and becomes real; and *cruelty*
will be linked less and less to the representation of something
horrible, and will become nothing other than the action of forces upon
the body, or sensation (the opposite of the sensational). As opposed to
a *miserabiliste* painter who paints parts of organs, Bacon has not
ceased to paint bodies without organs, the intensive fact of the body.

<br>

**Sequence of Actions**

The scrubbed and brushed parts of the canvas are, in Bacon, parts of a
neutralized organism, restored to their state of zones or levels: "the
human visage has not yet found its face." Theatre of Cruelty. Theatre of
Brutality. Canvas as stage. Here too intervenes (besides the auditory
language of sounds) the visual language of objects, movements,
attitudes, and gestures, but on condition that their meanings, their
physiognomies, their combinations be carried to the point of becoming
signs, making a kind of alphabet out of these signs. Once aware of this
language in space, language of sounds, cries, lights, onomatopoeia, the
theatre must organize it into veritable hieroglyphs, with the help of
characters and objects, and make use of their symbolism and
interconnections in relation to all organs and on all levels. Sated with
blood and the obscene sight of these two bodies---stripped naked,
ravaged and exposing all their organs. Screaming body. In Artaud's work,
the scream is made a visual, physical substance in space. In the first
icons of the figure of Christ being crucified, the mouth opens in
torment or ecstasy. The pre-eminent images of the scream, for
contemporary art, are those painted by Edvard Munch between 1893 and
1895, and by Francis Bacon in the late 1940s. *Figure Study II*,
1945-1946; *Head VI*, 1949; *Study for a Portrait*, 1949.

<br>

**A Note on S/Z**

Waiting outside Claridge's on a spring day, S/Z is late---as always,
then she appears, immaculately dressed---as always, today in her
*Gilmore Girls*-esque school uniform, long black pigtails swinging in
rhythm to her stride. The variety of these terms (their inventive range)
attests to the considerable labour the discourse must accomplish if it
hopes to *arrest* the enigma, to keep it open. Expectation thus becomes
the basic condition for truth: truth, these narratives tell us, is what
is *at the* end of expectation. This design brings narrative very close
to the rite of initiation (a long path marked with pitfalls,
obscurities, stops, suddenly comes out into the light); it implies a
return to order, for expectation is a disorder: disorder is
supplementary, it is what is forever added on without solving anything,
without finishing anything; order is complementary, it completes, fills
up, saturates, and dismisses everything that risks adding on: truth is
what completes, what closes. "Sorry, I'm late," she says, not meaning
it. "That's OK," I say, likewise. "But we need to go, we have a timed
ticket." We walk down Bond Street. "Everyone is staring at us," S/Z
says. "Well, you look like a Jewish schoolgirl and I look like an
English football thug, so they probably think I am kidnapping you to
sell you, human traffic you, white-slave trade you."

<br>

**Very Natural Actions**

S/Z "needs" a coffee---as usual. We go to the Coach & Horses and I have
a swift pint---as usual---while S/Z gets her caffeine kick. We finish
our drinks, walk to the Royal Academy and enter. The walls are painted
with various dark shades---grey, maroon, green, blue. The first thing
that catches my attention is the herringbone coat in Bacon's *Figure
Study II*, 1945-46. That old poof COULD paint. I have been to at least
fifteen major Bacon exhibitions over the years, but this is something
special. I enjoy looking at art with S/Z, we separate, come together,
discuss, take the piss. The emphasis on the beast in Bacon is important.
Replication of bodies: drawing: hallucinated. The model is subjected
"freely" (that is, in conformity with a code: hallucination) to the
manipulations of desire ("every capricious notion," "in every pose"). In
fact, the preceding drawings are already hallucinatory: to copy a pose
of Velázquez's, to imagine an unusual gesture, is to indulge in
controlled doodling, to manipulate the desired body according to
"fantasy" (hallucination). Following the realist notion of art, all
painting can be defined as an enormous gallery of hallucinatory
manipulation---wherein one does with bodies *as one wants,* so that
gradually they fill every compartment of desire (which is what happens
bluntly, that is, exemplarily, in Sade\'s *tableaux vivants)*.

<br>

**Transformation As Game**

*I stand there in the photograph and cup my hands in front of my mouth I
vomit into my palms I vomit and then the sick leaks between my knuckles
and that's the image*---that is the image---that is the image of George
Dyer just before he died, the day before Bacon's first major
retrospective  at the *Grand Palais* in Paris fifty years earlier. And
S/Z manifests this in her writing, the deterritorialization of desire,
of bodies, of violence---even of history, even of literature---and their
reterritorialization in a textual alterity of erotics and surrealism.
The entire series of spasms in Bacon is of this type: scenes of love, of
vomiting and excreting in which the body attempts to escape from itself
*through* one of its organs in order to re-join the field or material
structure. Bacon often said that, in the domain of Figures, the shadow
has as much presence as the body; but the shadow acquires this presence
only because it escapes from the body; the shadow is the body that has
escaped from itself through some localized point in the contour. And the
scream, Bacon\'s scream, is the operation through which the entire body
escapes through the mouth. All the pressures of the body.

<br>

**The Disturbed Replication**

And then there are the correspondences that I never really noticed at
first and that are pure coincidences of minds, conjunctions of genius,
edging the Real, rimming the postmodern for all its worth: *He took me
gently by the elbow and pushed me along the hallway---don't you want me
to take off my shoes? I exclaimed---into an empty room with a single
wooden chair lying on the floor, like it had been kicked onto its side.
The windows were all boarded over with sheets of stained plywood. There
was a single naked light bulb dangling from the ceiling, its dim light
illuminating the patterned beige wallpaper which was torn in places and
peeling off the walls. The place reeked of something unpleasant, I
didn't know what, but it smelled of bleach and the meat market---dead
animal flesh---and I could see mould growing in the corners.* By the
time we got to Bacon's last painting, *Study of a Bull*, 1991, oil,
aerosol paint and dust on canvas, we were both experiencing sensory
overload. We stepped into the courtyard, I rummaged in my bag to extract
my phone and make cursory notes of my thoughts. I turned to look at S/Z
uncharacteristically quiet. Like the screams of the popes taken from the
image of the nurse in Eisenstein's *Battleship Potemkin*, her mouth
formed a perfect O---but this wasn't fear or pain, this was
astonishment. The very existence of difference which generates life and
meaning; the ultimate honour is not death but that the classification of
death and life should be broken off. Both Bacon and S/Z transgress
classification. For both, this object is the human body, the recounting
of topological transgressions of this body. The antithesis of inner and
outer: abolished. The *underneath:* empty. The chain of copies:
interrupted. The contract of desire: falsified, unfulfilled,
deterritorialized.
