---
layout: posts
title: The Little Marriage
description: A short story by Noura Sarayel and Viola Volée – The Little Marriage
author: Noura Sarayel and Viola Volée
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... The life of a conscious thing consists entirely of consciousness ...
date: 2022-10-01
issue: fall-2022
image: '/assets/img/fall2022_og/sarayel-volee.jpg'
width: 640
height: 360
--- 

The life of a conscious thing consists entirely of consciousness. What,
then, is the life of an unconscious thing? It's life, if we insist, but
rather in that stiff and formal way that a pen is a tool or Hamlet a
politician. A tree is alive, if you'd like it to be. We have a coherent
means of talking about it that way. But we're wrong to talk about it
that way without believing, at least a little bit, the opposite; that we
live alone in a world that moves and grows but doesn't live (not with
us, anyway). Nothing is as alive as a person. Nothing can die quite as
profoundly as a person. But I'm not talking about death right now.

Machines hum glidepaths in the summer sky above my little apartment
building in the middle of our city. Viola is waiting for me in the
bathtub.

Already, for a little while previous, I'd been calling her *Viola* in my
head. Now that the paperwork was finally through, we'd eaten our egg
lunch, watching: the glass of the frame shone almost like her proud
eyes. It was all so beautiful. The name I've always wanted, for the
woman I've wanted more than all that time since. The officiated phrase,
*taking my name* has never had such significance to me, truly! And the
frame beside it, with its signatures---not the prime minister's, not
governor general's, of course---but ours ... much better. Pink pen.

I might not have made her do it, of course not, were it not illegal to
be transsexual. Yes, I will confess it in court. Simple pleasure,
simply, has become the rarity for us people. I only thought that if this
country denies me my pleasure, I will make my own from pain, like drugs.
Old white men simply don't know how to own others. I know the
ingredients.

There are waves in the bathtub, from my new *Viola*'s shaking, when I
enter with the shiniest of all things in-hand. She is scared, smiling.
Magical girl; she did not need to pour out the water. I love her so
deeply, and she loves me. I don't want to force her to soak in the
blood. And with her movements, and with the slipping water, I can still
make out the marker on her abdomen, from the morning: the arrow, the
pink PROPERTY OF (my legal name doesn't matter, now. At least, not to
me.)

When her cunt---when *my* cunt finally comes and off into my arms, her
hymen onto my wet finger, she'll be happy, she said. She'll be never
forced to carry. And, it is true. When I'm finished, she dances nice on
the tile. She dances, she says: "I feel human!"

And so, I sing her song:

*I'm happy I am not a cis man / Transness has done wonders / for my
technique / One learns to find creative ways of imposing one's will / on
the human body / One learns how to take nature under one's thumb / make
it do one's bidding / Your body is made of the fact that I'm touching it
/ You see, your kiss makes things what they want to be / Even my want
for you is a need / You stir the pulsing whole of / my whole sex*

*That pussy did what she was told and it felt so nice / to be listened
to / She's safer in my arms than sweetness in the body of an apple /
More welcome in my arms than God / in the heart of a saint / You're even
nearer to me than God to Himself / Wrapped up tight in my arms but free
/ as a bird in her sky / Warm and happy like the beautiful secret you
are / You fill my arms like a new idea / of divinity taking root in the
soul / I don't believe in God / I know that God made you / I'll make him
bow down to my love / for you*

*To say you're an extension of me / would be to say Paris is an
extension of the ground / "Flirting" is just what linguists call your
dialect / of French / and there's more passion for you in one corner of
my mouth than there's flames in a church fire / I'll blaze like that
God's eye in the heavens, that engine of summer / You teach my light to
eclipse the sun / and every flicker of your eyelashes is an entirely
successful prayer / Everything you pray to becomes a goddess / and I
wanna write about / how much more likely everyone's prayers are to come
true when you're next to them / on the pew*

*The other day I started a poem about the apocalypse, and somehow even
that's mostly a love poem for you /* "All destruction brought on by the
existence of humanity will have been worth it when you kiss my neck."

*Like a tornado taking me from life to an Oz of pink / I need to kiss
you like I'm planting rows / of sweet pink crop in the earth of your
upturned mouth / I am the 'yes' that nature wants so deeply / to say to
you / Flowers are attempts of grass to describe you, and you taught the
honeybees all they know / Sugar is your music like / Beethoven places
his hand on a piano / you place your mouth on mine / Uncut heroin would
barely be stronger than aspirin next to you / I tremble in poems but /
if I'd been a mathematician, I'd have found way to shape the spark of
you / in abstractions*

*All of the beauty in the universe calls you her sister, see / Our love
holds down the sky, then, your eyes teach me to climb the sun / The sky
shakes and twitches / and it comes alive / Your eyes are my lockjaw /
There's more dancing in a single glance than there ever has been / at a
prom, though / Now, I associate the memoir form with you / The night is
God's song of longing for you / But any song will inevitably be so if I
sing it / long enough*
