---
layout: posts
title: You Were Born in the Fire
description: You Were Born in the Fire by Passant Eltarek
author: Passant Eltarek
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... Your poise, your position, your every move looked very intentional, resembling a jump of a talented olympic swimmer ...
date: 2022-10-01
issue: fall-2022
image: '/assets/img/fall2022_og/eltarek.jpg'
width: 640
height: 427
---

You were born in the fire and you had never left the house since,
neither had I. I hadn't even tried fleeing the fire. I had let it take
over me. I had gotten my foot stuck between burning furniture and
tumbled onto the ground, cold concrete caressing my back. The ceiling
had been precipitating flames: three drops on my hair, and a final one
into my mouth. I had swallowed the fire lump, felt it slithering along
my throat. It had chased you as it embered in my stomach, competing with
you over the eighteen inches in my belly, breaking my water, and kicking
you out. You had crashed on the ground inaudibly, for the flames had
stolen your voice, sending you out mute, yet surprisingly alive. When
you never let out a cry, it instinctively stopped - the fire inside my
belly; it had done enough destruction. I had hidden what I thought was
your corpse inside the old, broken vacuum cleaner. Firemen had come and
extinguished the remains of the fire. Police had come and taken your
father from the other room. No one had known you were alive, no one had
been aware that you existed.

Now, five years and six days later, nature's warning suggested
otherwise. Through the window, I watched the garden leaves self-rake.
The orange leaves, the most abundant, tornadoed around the yellow ones,
delivering the news; the yellow leaves, sickened by what they heard,
swelled onto the rare green ones, symbiotically announcing the event.
The wind growled in response, echoing through the clouds, calling the
flock of blue jays before their seasonal migration began. They rushed
down, mimicking hawk sounds - their way of deceiving other creatures
away - and landed on the sedimentary pebbles fencing the empty pond,
three then three then three. The sky goosebumped, contrails trailing
along like marching ants. Your knees flinched as you watched nature
harmonize itself to protect you. I could've sworn your mouth let out a
squeak, but I guess it was just a sound effect of your breathing sped
up. Of course you were afraid. After all, what was protection if not the
ultimate sign of approaching danger?

"Yes," I answered your confused eyes. "Yes, not only is he out of jail,
he also knows the truth, and he isn't going to leave us alone."

I already had our luggages ready, dormant by the back door; mine plain,
navy blue; yours neon green with drawings of superheroes you didn't know
about; both brought to us by the neighbor across the street upon my
request. I clutched your hand with my right hand and grabbed my luggage
with the left. How was I going to carry yours too? I tried holding them
both with different finger combinations, but yours always slipped. Never
mind, I thought, we're leaving it behind. It was too bright, it would
grab unwanted attention. You would manage without it, how long would you
be able to survive in the foreign wild anyways? I stepped out, dragging
you and the blue bag along, and shut the door behind us.

You were born in the fire and the trees could tell. As soon as you
stepped outside the house gate, the wind jolted the leaves of the red
maples down, forcing them to bow to the sight of you. Light, orange
leaves fell off cedars sporadically around you like confetti celebrating
your arrival. The sun twinkled, smoothly raying on your face. You
ambulated slowly, grinning to the universe's sincere welcome. However,
as you walked further away, you surpassed the ending point of the nature
trained to protect you. Your surroundings started acting vulgarly. The
red maple branches bowed too lowly, almost piercing your eyes. Pinecones
detached themselves from their trees and flooded your face like
fireworks lighted downwards, blinding you. Abandoned bindweed roots on
the ground snaked around your feet in lemniscates, trying to stabilize
them to the ground. I had to interfere, I wasn't going to watch Earth's
attempts at taking you away from me. I clasped your hand tightly, pulled
you away from the roots, from the leaves, from the stems, battling them
all. It seemed like I pulled you too hard, I could only tell when I
found your whole body cartwheeling in the air surrounding my hand,
landing on a pile of yellow leaves four meters away from an inert herd
of deer.

There were ten, no tens, no hundreds of them; all identical: russet
brown with white circular patches, no antlers but huge ears that looked
like face wings. And as if that's precisely what they were, the deer
took off in flight-like motions upon your landing, dwindling into the
distance, all but one. Did they sense that you were born in the fire?
Were the flames of that day still inside you, resembling colors of lions
or bears, and thereby a potential deer predator? If so, why did the last
one remain? None of these questions would have crossed your mind of
course, you were clueless as to how wildlife functioned. The questions
that you were thinking of though, ones I was equally clueless about, had
driven you to rise back up, dusting plant twigs off your clothes. The
remaining deer walked away, as if it was waiting to make sure of your
mobility. You were standing back up, your eyes still full of wonder and
your expression still full of eagerness to continue the journey. You
weren't going to surrender as easily as I had thought.

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>


"He was born in the fire, mute," the neighbor said to the police on the
phone.

"Do you think that's an adequate reason for her to want to get rid of
him?"

"I don't know," the neighbor wasn't sure how much he should give away,
or how much he *wanted* to give away.

"Sir, I need you to tell me everything you know," the policeman urged.
"If you claim the child could be in danger, you have to help us save
him."

"Yes, of course."

"So, the child was born in the fire, five years ago?"

"Yes."

"And now they both disappeared?"

"Yes."

"How do you know they're not just out for a walk?"

"They've never set foot outside their door since the fire. A few days
ago, she asked me to buy her two suitcases, one for her and one for him.
So I did. Now, her suitcase is gone, but his is still there, packed."

"How do you have access to their house?"

"I have a key. I'm the one who brings them groceries, books, water,
everything. I'm a close friend, I live right across the street."

"Had there been any other signs that she was going to leave in the
recent past?"

"She thought nature was telling her something. She said something about
her husband being released from prison, setting off to find her, to take
the child away from her."

"When was her husband released? Do you know his case number? His name?
Why he was sentenced?"

"Sir, her husband passed away in that fire."

The policeman was silent for a moment. Then he asked, "his name please?"

"Martin Litt."

After some keyboard noises, "it's true, he's dead."

"She refused to believe it. She chose to blame him. To think he's away
serving his punishment. Hating him was easier for her to accept his
absence."

"What changed now? Why did she think he's out?"

"She thought nature told her so. In her story, he was sentenced to five
years. She always counted down the days in fear, they're over now."

"Is there anything else we should know?"

"Yes," the neighbor hesitated. "She just recently found out she's
pregnant."

"Who's the father?"

"Me."

<figure class="my-4 py-3 ">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/dinkus.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="d-block mx-auto" alt="Blank Space" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>


You were born in the fire but your sibling wasn't going to be. He (it
must be a boy - I could feel it) was going to wail when he's released
into the world, soothed only by my soft hands and warm grip. He was
going to scream when he needed my attention, and he was going to have a
vivid laugh when I rocked him around. He was going to say *mama* when he
turned eleven months old, a first word that would be celebrated in the
neighborhood. He was going to start singing along to his lullabies,
replacing words he couldn't pronounce with gibberish. He was going to go
to school and tell me about the girl with braided, orange hair he likes
to play blocks with. He was going to be born in a hospital and his
birthday wasn't going to be a fire anniversary.

Most importantly, nature was going to treat him well. Was it hurting you
again? It was the ground this time. The mud undulated underneath your
feet, but not in the way of guidance, rising below the foot about to
take a step forward and sinking below the foot steady on the ground; but
the other way around, suddenly sinking right before your foot hits it,
and abruptly rising when the other foot isn't kinetic, as if trying to
trip you. You didn't seem to notice its motion, but it was your first
time walking on mud anyways, you would've thought this is how it should
work. It got more challenging as the land became more grassy. The moss
started to interrupt your footsteps, confusing the soil. The dirt's
rhythm, mixed up between the shoe-shaped moss and your feet, started
juggling them all around like a clown juggling balls.

Yet, you were still oblivious, too spellbound at the sight of the twenty
two meter waterfall you were now running towards. The ground changed its
pace as you changed yours, almost racing you. I wanted you to win, to
show nature that you were stronger than it and that your muteness was
compromised by your speed and your power. But you weren't catching up. I
must do something, I thought. I must push you, only slightly, just
enough for you to understand that you must speed up. Your brother kicked
in my belly driving me to push you faster, sooner, fiercer than I
intended, unaware that you had reached the tip of the hill, and were
standing right at the edge of the waterfall.

You were born in the fire and now you descended into the water. I
watched as your torso twirled around itself in loops. Your legs were
wide open, facing the sky while your hands were outstretched downwards,
pyramiding your body upside down. Your poise, your position, your every
move looked very intentional, resembling a jump of a talented olympic
swimmer to the extent that, for a moment, observing you fall from a
meter afar with a hand on my belly, the sound of approaching sirens
ringing in my ears, I had forgotten that I had pushed you. I watched as
if you were performing a water show and were going to come back up
momentarily, run back towards me, cured, voluble. As if your clash with
the lake, in which the glistening water was going to come in contact
with the fuming lava inside your volcanic heart, wasn't, as the
newspapers would later call it, a murder disguised as an elemental
reaction.
