---
layout: posts-no-author
title: Kaisa Saarinen Interview
description: In this conversation, Kaisa Saarinen discusses her book, Weather Underwater.
author: Matt Lee
tags: [interview]
excerpt: ... Without contrast, there is no intensity ...
date: 2023-04-03
issue: spring-2023
interview: author of Weather Underwater
image: '/assets/img/spring2023/kaisa-author.jpg'
width: 800
height: 1200
---

In times of crisis, we seek solidarity in community. Sometimes this
brings out the best in humanity---mutual aid, care networks, coalitions.
But catastrophes can also reveal our ugly side. Scarcity presents a
breeding ground for hatred, fascism, and violence.

This is the backdrop of Kaisa Saarinen's debut novel, [*Weather
Underwater* (Bellows Press)](https://books2read.com/u/bxr2zP){:target="_blank"}. Equal parts
political thriller, eco-disaster sci-fi, and neo-gothic romance,
Saarinen's tale of two young lovers wrenched apart only to find
themselves rejoined by fate explores the awful potential of love. Told
in lyrical, non-linear episodes, *Weather Underwater* brims with
sensuality and is populated with complex, conflicted characters.
Saarinen has penned a futurist tragedy of the highest order, one that
subverts well-worn apocalyptic tropes into something fresh, sharp, and
surprising.

I corresponded with Saarinen via email. We discussed the fluidity of
genre, the relationship between art and politics, trans-lingualism, and
more.

<figure class="mb-4 py-4">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/seperator.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="mx-auto d-block" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

**How did you come to writing fiction? Where did it all begin?**

I've had an urge to tell stories and play with words since I was very
young. Maybe it's because I was weird and struggled to express myself
the way other kids did, or maybe I simply thought it was fun. I still
remember the first story I typed on a computer when I was about 6. It
was about a bunch of animals who banded together to protect their forest
from a zoo developer, and it ended in tragedy. I don't think I've ever
felt as accomplished as I did when I finished writing that story, even
though it was five pages long at most.

**Set in a world of ecological disaster and fascist regimes, *Weather
Underwater* feels extremely prescient. Where did the initial seed for
the book spring from and how did the project evolve as you developed the
story?**

The seed for *Weather Underwater* was a short story I wrote in Finnish
when I was 16, or more accurately an image that formed the basis of that
story. The image became a lasting obsession, although the framing
changed dramatically in the process of novelisation (and growing up).

That early iteration was about two teenage girls evacuating from a city
that's about to be swallowed by the sea. They've grown up in a care
home, hating it together, and they share an intense bond. When they
reach their destination, an inland city, they decide to evade the
official evacuee registration system. So they try to build a new life on
the street, only relying on each other, but of course it's a struggle.
One of the girls is afflicted by an intense homesickness, a dreadful mix
of nostalgia and longing for a future that cannot exist. She's so
overwhelmed she ends up walking into the sea and drowning herself. A few
months later, the other girl wakes up alone in the comfort of a social
housing complex and wonders if she's ever going to feel whole again. (I
can't deny I have a thing for sad endings.)

I started working on a new novel manuscript some eight years later and
realised halfway through that I'd written something similar before. When
I reread the short story, the amount of overlap surprised me---I ended
up translating and incorporating a few sections into the novel. However,
the pieces are thematically very different. The short story had more of
a focus on these adolescent girls' desire to be free from the
suffocating rules imposed on them by the institutions of adult society
(which of course felt more personal to me as a 16-year-old). More
importantly, the flooding was presented as an inevitable, amoral force
of God or nature.

By the time I started writing *Weather Underwater*, I felt it was
impossible to depict the flooding in an apolitical way. I was interested
in the social consequences---who would be blamed for it? How might this
play out on an interpersonal level? Of course this thematic shift
mirrored my observations and anxieties about the politics of climate
change. It wasn't my intention to write a 'political novel', but I
should probably contextualise this by saying that I think all writing is
political; most of it just doesn't make its ideological positions
explicit, which is understandable from a stylistic perspective. Because
I chose to situate my characters in an explicitly politicised scenario,
I couldn't help bringing those elements to the foreground, but it was
important to me that the novel doesn't read like a manifesto. That's
also why I decided to tell the story from a close POV of different
characters, all of whom have a very limited understanding of what's
going on.

**I think *Weather Underwater* goes beyond simply being a political
novel, though politics play an essential role in the narrative. You
mentioned keeping a tight focus on the characters. At the center of the
book we have Mia and Lily, who in many ways are diametric opposites
nevertheless drawn to one another. You render them with such depth and
complexity. Lily, for instance, aligns herself with the neo-fascist
Ebbtide party and commits brutal acts of violence, yet she\'s still
written sympathetically, and her motivations are equally as fleshed out
as Mia's, who works with an underground resistance movement (their story
reminds me of Genet's *Funeral Rites*). As a reader, what do you think
makes for a compelling character, and as a writer, how do you approach
constructing a rich inner psyche for your characters?**

I'm incredibly honoured by the mention of *Funeral Rites*, as it's one
of my favourite novels (and Genet one of the writers and dramatists I
admire the most)! What I find particularly inspiring about it is the
masterful exploration of contradictions as a source of not only hatred
and violence, but also vitality and beauty.

Conventional models of dramaturgy dictate that character development
should be expressed through the construction and eventual denouement of
conflicts, which I agree can be an effective tool for storytelling (and
I do want to tell interesting stories). However, both in writing and in
life, I'm more compelled by the contradictions that are irreconcilable.

I believe that even if people do have certain relatively fixed traits,
they are simultaneously afflicted by inconsistency, indecisiveness and
the inability to act according to their best knowledge. Moreover, I
don't necessarily see human reality in dialectic terms---I don't feel
confident that there is an underlying teleology or dao or such, and
subsequently, it seems plausible to me that the reconciliation of many
contradictions is impossible and perhaps even undesirable. These beliefs
inevitably influence my approach to characters.

I define them primarily through their actions and their relationships
(and conflicts) with other characters; their 'sense of self' is mostly
the outcome of these interactions. I don't have a consistent method for
working out plot decisions, but I usually think of a few different
scenarios and then decide, or try out, which makes the most sense for
the characters in light of their accumulated identities, trying to
achieve some sense of psychological plausibility. At the same time, I
don't think of my characters as fully knowable or resolvable, which
reflects my views on (social) reality. They are always in flux, but most
clearly defined through each other.

**I wanted to ask you about genre, as I found you deftly mixed several
in the book. There are elements of science fiction, political thriller,
bildungsroman---though at its core I think *Weather Underwater* is a
love story. Is genre something you're conscious of when you write or is
it more a consequence of the narrative itself?**

Most of the writers I admire also experimented with a variety of genres
and forms, including stage plays or screenplays---Genet, Angela Carter,
Shuuji Terayama, Marguerite Duras, and so on. I'm drawn to artists who
keep finding new ways to investigate whatever questions or themes
they're obsessive about, and genre is one of the main mechanisms for
such experimentation. In my own writing, I very consciously aspire to be
as genre-fluid as possible. To an extent, this is also inspired by my
desire to reject the divide between 'literary' and 'genre' writing, and
between different forms of art more generally. I think everything should
be more fluid.

When I started writing *Weather Underwater*, I didn't know which genres
I wanted to borrow from, beyond that it would have elements of political
thriller. As the storyline expanded, I found opportunities to utilise
various conventions. It was one of the most interesting parts for the
writing process, although I also found it very challenging. Especially
when dabbling in genres I'm not that familiar with, it's not easy to use
genre as a tool instead of being overpowered by it.

I'm a pretty visual person, and the starting point for my stories and
poems is often an image. The stylistic grammar of genre helps me figure
out how to construct that image. I also think the use of genre elements
can add new meaning to the text---it metonymously supercharges a piece
by connecting it with a more expansive reservoir of other works,
although that also comes with the danger of redundancy. Instead of
playing them straight, I would like to mix up genres in a way that makes
them bleed into each other, creating a hybrid language of sorts.

***Weather Underwater* juxtaposes moments of real tenderness with scenes
of shocking violence. I was often caught off guard, perhaps lulled into
a blissful state by the more lyrical sections before being confronted
with unexpected bloodshed. But you\'re not always explicit---violence is
frequently implied rather than shown. How do you maintain a balance
between beauty and brutality?**

It's true that although violence is a constant presence in the book, it
often looms in the background, only occasionally bursting through to the
characters' direct sensory field. The themes are overall quite heavy,
but I tried to weigh the narrative by modulating its intensity. I'm less
interested in violence itself than its aftershocks, so I tend to amplify
it when it directly affects my central characters, and depict it more
matter-of-factly when the distance from the narrative point of view is
greater.

This might sound a bit flippant, but I do believe in violence as a
powerful narrative device, and it's important to handle it carefully.
Without contrast, there is no intensity---in fiction, constant
blunt-force bludgeoning loses its aesthetic and dramatic effectiveness
very quickly, so lighter moments are necessary for preserving the shock
value of brutality. I'm interested in pushing both my characters and my
narratives to the occasional breaking point, but if you stay on the edge
for too long it stops being scary, and that's not what I want.

I also like blending these modes, introducing elements of more lyrical
or "beautiful" writing in scenes of brutality and vice versa, which
feels emotionally truthful to me---experiences of joy and horror, pain
and pleasure, and whatever else is analogous to light and shadow, are
often interspersed in strange ways.

**I know you're originally from Finland but now live in the UK, so I was
curious how your background plays into your creative pursuits.
Certainly, there\'s a lot of diversity in *Weather Underwater*, which is
reflected in the subsequent tensions between immigrants and other
marginalized groups coming into conflict with xenophobic reactionaries
who want to keep their population "pure." Does living between different
cultures bleed into your writing? Likewise, how does being bilingual
inform your work?**

I grew up in a small agricultural town, best known for being Finland's
largest producer of chicken eggs. I hated living there and had a burning
desire to leave as soon as possible, for the same reasons all weird kids
want to leave their small towns and suburbs. I left home early to attend
high school in the city, and then left the country to go to university
in Glasgow. Even though I spent my adolescence looking for exit routes,
there are a lot of things I appreciate about Finland, especially the
relatively high level of equality. I'm not from a wealthy or academic
family, but it didn't seem to matter that much growing up; education is
completely free of charge, and students are supported with fairly
generous grants. The longer I spend outside Finland, the more keenly I'm
aware that I only got this far because I had so much structural support.

Since moving to the UK, the single biggest cultural difference that
continues to fascinate and infuriate me is the high level of inequality
and the way it's reflected and reproduced by the culture of class. It
seems that education, as well as arts and even the most minimal daily
necessities like housing and food, have only become more inaccessible to
many people since I first moved here a few years ago. It makes me angry
and sad and it definitely informs my writing, particularly in *Weather
Underwater*, which in many ways is me processing the absurd hostility of
the British socio-economic system, both towards its own people and
towards immigrants (including those from countries it used to colonise).
I don't believe in utopias, but I do believe it's not hard to do better
than this. That's not to say I hate everything about this country,
otherwise I wouldn't stay here; I love my friends and hate the
government.

On a less polemical note, I've always loved learning languages---as a
kid, I used to get textbooks from the library and spend hours poring
over foreign syllabaries and vocabularies. This interest was probably
connected to both my escapist urges and a general obsession with words
and writing. I love thinking about the lineage of words, whether they
are rooted in Latin or Greek or Shang dynasty oracle bone script. I'm
also endlessly fascinated by the translation of literature and poetry,
which seems like a near-miraculous process of creative transformation.

Many of my poems are also multilingual, because the medium seems ideal
for that kind of experimentation. However, I tend to stick to one
language when telling stories. Even so, I think the fact I'm mostly
writing prose in my second language definitely informs, or maybe more
accurately misinforms, my work---even after years of studying and
communicating mainly in English, I'm sure there are sentence structures
and word choices that a native speaker wouldn't use. My foreignness is
even more pronounced when I'm reading my work out loud, as my accent
remains stubbornly Finnish. It's not really something I feel insecure
about, because I'm not a purist. I think writing and speaking in a
second or even third or fourth language can open up interesting
possibilities, because you approach and access the grammar and the words
in a way that is not available to a native speaker, even if the end
result is not always 'correct'.

***Weather Underwater* reflects many of the issues that plague humanity
today---climate change, right-wing nationalism, demonization of the
poor. What role do you feel the artist plays in resisting these forces?
How can writers practice social/political activism, whether it's on or
off the page?**

This might sound strange coming from a writer who's outspoken about
their political commitments and frequently lets them spill onto the
page, but I believe art has very little capacity to change the world. I
do think art can become a catalyst for discussion and occasionally even
action, but it only possesses an indirect and socially contingent power
to manipulate our attentions and emotions. Any real resistance must
happen outside the covers of a book; it's counterproductive for both
artists and audiences to believe that creating or engaging with art is
politically meaningful in itself. That's why it frustrates me that a
tendency to think of art in moralistic and didactic terms has become
more pervasive, both on social media and in art institutions.

Somewhat ironically, the obsession with the moral purpose of art appears
to be largely driven by the accumulating moral failures in other areas
of society. Art is being promoted as a medicine for austerity, a means
to cultivate a sense of community and well-being, but on its own it's
about as useful as slapping a band-aid on an amputation wound. Artists
do have a duty to act morally and struggle for a just society, insofar
as they are human beings, but the channels for activism are mostly the
same as they are for everyone else---most importantly, organising in
your local community and workplace to push back against the expansion of
sociopathic capitalism, now serviced by major political parties of all
colours and stripes. The creative process should not be subjugated to
the service of 'societal betterment', not only because it breeds boring
art but also because it simply doesn't work. While there is a rich
tradition of propagandistic art on both the left and the right, and it's
a genre I find very interesting (I love listening to Finnish agitprop
ballads from the 70s), I believe that shifts in material conditions are
far more important than propaganda in explaining the rise of powerful
movements on either side.

I can seek solace in art precisely because it's relatively
inconsequential. Aside from being something I simply enjoy, writing
allows me to examine the impossible contradictions and to channel the
frustrations I can't ever resolve in more pragmatic ways. While writing
*Weather Underwater*, I did worry that I'm failing the people around me
by not creating a work that would function to give them more hope, and
the thought still occurs to me at times. The catharsis of fictional
wish-fulfilment can be incredibly thrilling (I saw 'How to Blow Up a
Pipeline' last Friday and it moved me to tears), and I think there is
definitely space for more "hopecore" works on the left. But
fundamentally, I don't think it's the duty of the artist to create
propaganda. Moreover, consuming too much fiction that deludes us into
feeling as though we've overcome a problem that remains insurmountable
in reality might not be good for us (studying Brecht in high school
might have made me a killjoy for life). But the larger point I'm trying
to make is that it probably doesn't matter much whether *Weather
Underwater* is helpful or harmful---I just hope people find something in
it that sticks to them. And if it does inspire someone to engage more
critically with politics, I hope they can channel that into activism in
the non-fiction genre.

<figure class="mb-4 py-4">
  <img src="{{ '/assets/img/seperator.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="mx-auto d-block" style="max-height:15px;" />
</figure>

<img src="{{ '/assets/img/spring2023/kaisa-author.jpg' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" class="img-fluid mx-auto my-4 d-block" alt="Kaisa Saarinen"/>

**Kaisa Saarinen** is a former farmgirl in London. Her first collection
of poetry and short fiction, *Voideuse*, was published by Feral Dove in
May 2022. Her debut novel, *Weather Underwater*, will be published by
Bellows Press in May 2023.
