---
layout: posts
title: Sensational
description: Sensational by Steve Finbow
author: Steve Finbow
tags: [fiction]
excerpt: ... Roaring, hissing, banging, booming, whistling, puffing, whispering ...
date: 2023-04-05
issue: spring-2023
image: '/assets/img/spring2023_og/finbow.jpg'
width: 400
height: 600
--- 

A ring of blood-flecked vomit glistens on top of a deliquescing copy of
the *Sunday Sport* as the afternoon sun splashes light willy-nilly
around the archive-cum-pornset-cum-morgue of a Shoreditch loft.
Scattered across the floor, art objects---not objet d'art---but art
objects: paintbrushes, tubes of oil and tubes of acrylic paint, pots of
household gloss, tins of household matt, buckets of household emulsion,
paint-rollers, rags, sponges, bottles of formaldehyde, saws, hammers,
rolls of canvas, canvas stretchers, old doors, old paintings done by
anonymous or forgotten artists, photographs, pictures torn from
magazines, cut-up newspapers, pipe cleaners, rolls of bubble-wrap, rolls
of burlap, rolls of banknotes, wine bottles, beer bottles, vodka
bottles---all filled with pens and pencils, modelling tools, plastic
straws---there are pairs of goggles, various stencils, broken mirrors,
blowtorches, dirty overalls, work boots splattered with all manner of
materials, jars of linseed oil, poppyseed oil and beeswax, flasks of
turpentine, white spirit, citrus peel oil, jugs of jism, jizz, cum,
sperm, spunk, seed, spurt, spooge, splooge, skeet, squirt, opalescing in
the sunlight.

Hadrian Durst---for that is to whom this expansive atelier and the rest
of the building belongs---had the not-so-original idea---what is
original after all, what with appropriation, Elaine Sturtevant, Sherrie
Levine and now Glenn bloody Brown, Jeff Koons' fucking balloons, fucking
cartoons, fucking Cicciolina?---to use his seminal fluid as an artistic
medium, to employ his personal emissions in the way Raphael had used
walnut oil. Warhol had done it in the late '70s in his not very
successful cum paintings, even Duchamp splashed some spare spermatozoa
over a piece of black satin and called it *Faulty Landscape*.
Durst---who had read the opening pages of the introduction to *A Very
Short Introduction to Alchemy*---believed his fluid to be some kind of
astral sperm, a gift from the stars, a gift to the stars.

In the centre of the room, a large head sits on a wooden stool, when the
light moves across the room, the head inverts itself, the face is the
inside of a mould of itself turned inward and attached at the inverted
back of the head to form two hemispheres reversed on the plane of
intersection and touching at the poles, so we are looking into the
cavity but it is looking back at us as surface. Everything is core and
cavity, the impossibility and fabrication of three-dimensionality on a
two-dimensional surface. The deception of perspective, P=f(X), equals
the lie of all art.

Towards the far reaches of the loft, the detritus stops, as if some
invisible Canute were standing there holding back the tide of art
against the pristine shore of a quartz floor. Under a window, a bed
remains unslept in, the pima-cotton duvet unruffled, the pillows
plumped, the waffle throw scattered with copies of *October*, *frieze*,
*GQ* and *Viz* magazines. Beneath this ablated moraine of publications,
a hand with dirty fingernails clutches at the throw's tassels. The hand
protrudes from the arm of a Crombie coat which covers three-quarters of
the body of the artist, ending at a pair of battered black-and-white
Converse All-Stars. The shaven head at the other end of this collapsed
human being emits a low moan as somewhere in his coat pocket a Motorola
StarTAC trills annoyingly.

Roaring, hissing, banging, booming, whistling, puffing, whispering,
murmuring, mumbling, muttering, gurgling, screeching, creaking,
rustling, buzzing, scraping, shouting, screaming, shrieking, wailing,
hooting, howling, rattling, sobbing. All of these arts of noise greet
Anita Raven as she approaches the Bar San Calisto, Trastevere, Rome, in
the early evening of September 16, 1997. The noises are created by
men---old, middle-aged, young and shocked out of their puberty and
senescence---by the sight of Anita walking through the piazza. A lot of
the women too turn their heads to watch her, even some randy pigeons
pause their hold-and-thrust head bobbing to fix their orange eyes on her
procession.

She sits cross-legged on a chair smiling as the waiter brushes crumbs
from the table and takes her order of espresso and a Campari Spritz. She
takes out a cigarette and the waiter fumbles with a lighter. She smiles,
her slightly protruding teeth---a gap between her maxillary central
incisors---flash white as the lighter ignites and she cups his sweating
hand and inhales. Then her smile switches off and she stares ahead aware
that every man in the piazza is staring at her.

Anita Raven---aka Anita Pansy, Anita Perger, Sonia Berger, Sonia
Bergher---born Anita Melnicoff, April 11, 1975, Budapest,
Hungary---holds her cigarette high and away from her to keep the smoke
blowing into her green eyes, a gold bracelet shimmering on her arm, her
thick wavy black hair---dyed from its original dirty blonde---curls over
her shoulders and rests just above her breasts. Freckles are visible on
her face, shoulders and upper chest. She wears a short tight pink dress
adorned with yellow roses and green leaves, her legs are bare and tanned
and crossed just above her pink beaded ankle-strap Tom Ford Gucci shoes.

The waiter places the espresso and Campari Spritz on the table, spilling
a little of both as his eyes track a line of freckles down into Anita's
cleavage. He apologises and she smiles, quickly crossing and uncrossing
her legs, at which point a middle-aged man at a neighbouring table
audibly groans. Anita sips at her espresso, stubs out her cigarette and
immediately lights another. She is waiting for her friend and fellow
porn star, Anita Dove---aka Anita Kelly, Anita Gold, Bonanita,
Anika---born Anita Hudacek, May 27, 1976, Budapest, Hungary. They have
appeared in many films together since moving to Rome and are scheduled
to appear in separate scenes in *Sodomania 20---For Members Only* with
TT Boy and Sean Michaels respectively. It is Anita Raven's first
interracial scene and she takes a sip of her Campari Spritz and tries to
list in her mind the movies she has appeared in since *Hotel Fear*---her
first ever porn scene---when she was just nineteen. There was *Cum In
Your Face*, *Immoral Tales*, *Laura's Obsession*, *Maximum Perversion*,
*Old, Rich and Perverted*, *Slave to His Mistress*, *A Great Duo*, *A
Quiet Weekend Of Terror*---"Oh, no, wait," she thinks, "that was
interracial with Julian St Jox." And she smiles as she remembers her
next movie after that was *Amnesia* and then *Angelique the Perverted
Innocent*, *Deep Throat---The Quest 3*, *Mad Sex*, *Private Stories
6---Fiddlers on the Roof*, *Rock N' Roll Rocco 1 & 2*, *Sex Run*, *The
Dream*, *The Voyeur*, *Triple X*, *World Sex Tour 6 & 10*, *Beautiful
Girls of Europe Get Fucked 2 & 3*, *Bodyslammin'*, *Colours of Passion 1
& 2*, *Dirty Debutantes*, *4 Play*, *Pussy Beat 2 & 3*, *The Panty
Thief*, *Wet Cotton Panties 4* and *Francesca: Anal Symphony*.

She takes her StarTac Rainbow from her pink lizard-leather Fendi
baguette bag and dials, swishes her hair around her shoulders and lifts
the phone to her ear. It rings and rings and rings and she pouts her
lips and hangs up.

Anita sips at her Campari Spritz and then everything stops. The air is
sucked toward the far edge of the piazza, pigeons stop in mid-air, the
conversations slow and mumble and cease, the waiter freezes in a
pirouette and then whoosh---violin, viola, cello, double bass, harp,
bass drum, castanets, chimes, conga drum, cowbell, cymbals,
glockenspiel, gong, snare drum, tambourine, tenor drum, timpani,
triangle, xylophone, flute, piccolo, oboe, English horn, clarinet, bass
clarinet, saxophone, bassoon, contrabassoon, French horn, trumpet,
trombone, tuba, harpsichord, piano, organ---all strike up in
harmony---and every man outside the bar, a few women also and even some
of the now befuddled pigeons turn their gaze towards the Church of San
Callisto as Anita Dove comes into view, blonde hair piled on top of her
head, her almond-lynx eyes fixed coldly on her destination, her
cheekbones as sharp as razor clams, her lips pouted, her body squeezed
into a short and tight Dolce & Gabbana leopard-print dress, her long
tanned legs balanced expertly on a pair of Manolo Blahnik leopard-print
suede sandals. Confusion ensues, the men, women and pigeons playing head
tennis between the cross-legged Anita Raven and the striding Anita Dove.

Anita Raven smiles and thinks, "Bitch!" And then remembers the joke
Hadrian told her that she has never really understood, although it
caused him to roll around the floor in paroxysms of hilarity. He had
said that, when Anita Dove appeared in double-penetration scenes, maybe
she should change her name to Anita Cockatoo.

"Ciao," Anita says.

"Ciao," says Anita.
